My Weird School
Book number two
Mr Klutz Is Nuts
Chapter One
The Flying Principal
“Watch out!” somebody screamed.
Mr. Klutz, the principal of my school,
was tearing down the sidewalk on a
skateboard! It was early morning, just
before the school bell was about to ring.
Mr. Klutz must have built up too much
speed coming down the hill. He was
weaving in and around the kids and their
parents, totally out of control. Most principals are really serious and dignified.
They look like they were born as grownups! But not Mr. Klutz. He’s more like a
grown-up kid. When he isn’t skateboarding to school, he rides his motorcycle, his
scooter, or wears his in-line skates.
“Runaway principal!” some kid shouted.
“Run for your lives!”
The skateboard must have hit a crack
in the sidewalk, because the next thinganybody knew, Mr. Klutz was flying
through the air like a superhero. Kids and
their parents were diving out of his way.
Dogs were running in all directions.
Mr. Klutz crash-landed in the bushes at
the front of the school. Luckily he was
wearing a helmet, and he had knee pads
and elbow pads on over his clothes.
Everybody stopped for a second, because
Mr. Klutz was just lying there in the4
bushes without moving. We weren’t sure
if he was alive.
“Good morning, Mr. Klutz,” said Mrs.
Cooney, the school nurse, as she walked
past.
“Good morning, Mrs. Cooney,” he
replied.
“Beautiful day, isn’t it?”
“Lovely.”
Then Mr. Klutz got up, brushed himself
off, and walked up the front steps, like it
was totally normal for a principal to
skateboard to school and crash headfirst
into the bushes.
Mr. Klutz is nuts!
Chapter Two
Big Trouble
“That’s the last straw, A.J.,” my teacher,
Miss Daisy, told me. “I want you to go to
the principal’s office!”
“I didn’t do anything!” I protested.
My name is A.J. and I hate school. Why
do we have to learn so much stuff? If you
ask me, by the time you get to second
grade you already know enough stuff to
last you a lifetime. School is way overrated.
My mom says that all eight-year-old
boys have to go to school, so I guess
there’s nothing I can do about it. But
when I grow up, I’m going to be a professional hockey player. You don’t have toknow how to read or write or do math to
shoot a puck into a net.
Actually, that’s what I was doing when
my teacher, Miss Daisy, sent me to the
principal’s office.
You see, me and my friends Michael
and Ryan were playing hockey with a
tennis ball during recess. We were shooting the ball at a tree to score a goal. I shot
one wild, and it landed over by a bunch
of girls in our class.
“Ouch! That hit me!” shouted this girl
named Annette. She was rubbing her leg
like she had been hit by a train or something. It was just a tennis ball! Annette is
such a crybaby.
“Hey, A.J.!” Michael hollered. “That
counts as a goal!”
“How come?” I asked. “I missed the tree.”
“Well, you did hit the puck into Annette.
Get it? Annette? A net? Annette?” Well,
after me and Ryan got it, we thought that
was just about the funniest joke in the history of the world.
Miss Daisy didn’t think it was very
funny, though. She was already mad at
me because I had forgotten to bring in a
current-event article for the third week in
a row.
That’s when she said it was the last
straw and I had to go to Mr. Klutz’s office.
Chapter Three
The Principal Is Your Pal
The principal is like the king of the school.
He gets to tell everybody what to do and
where to go. That is cool! If I can’t be a
professional hockey player when I grow
up, I want to be a principal so I can boss
teachers around.
My friend Billy from around the
corner, who was in
second grade last
year, told me that
principals have a
dungeon down in
the basement of the
school where they
torture kids who
misbehave. I don’t
know if Billy’s telling the truth or not. But one time we had
gym class and we passed by this open door
in the basement and there were all kinds of
scary-looking things in there. Michael said
he saw chains hanging from the ceiling
over a chair with straps on the arms andlegs, so I guess that’s what Mr. Klutz uses
to torture bad kids.
I was scared. I had never been to the
principal’s office before. On the way
there, I stopped into the boy’s bathroom.
Maybe I could dig a tunnel out of the
school and escape, I thought. My friend
Billy told me he saw that in a war movie
once. These guys dug their way out of
prison camp with a spoon. But I didn’t
have a spoon. And I didn’t want to touch
the floor of the bathroom anyway. Yuck!
When I got to Mr. Klutz’s office, his
secretary made me sit in a chair for about
a million hours. Mr. Klutz’s door was
closed the whole time. I wondered if he
was torturing some other kid. I didn’t
hear any screams or anything.
Finally the secretary said I could go
inside. I opened the door and was surprised to see Mr. Klutz was hanging upside
down from a bar near the ceiling. He had
on boots that were attached to the bar.
“What are you doing up there?” I asked.
“Oh, just hanging around,” Mr. Klutz
said as he pulled himself out of his boots
and jumped down onto the floor. “When
the blood rushes to my head, it helps me
think.”
Well, I know that blood rushing to
your head doesn’t help you grow hair,
because Mr. Klutz had no hair on hishead at all. He was bald as a balloon. Mr.
Klutz’s office looked pretty much like
my dad’s office, except he had a big
snowboarding poster on the wall and a
foosball table in the corner. Oh, and he
also had a punching bag with a face on
it.
Come to think of it, it didn’t look anything like my dad’s office.
I kept my head down when he told me
to take a seat, so he would feel sorry for
me. When you get into trouble, always
keep your head down,
because if grownups feel sorry for you they won’t punish
you as badly.
“Miss Daisy told me why you’re here,”
Mr. Klutz said, “but I’d like to hear your
side of the story.”
“Miss Daisy thinks I stole some straws,”
I told him.
“What makes you think that, A.J.?” “Well, she was all mad at me and she
said, ‘That’s the last straw!’ Then she told
me to go to your office. I swear I didn’t
take any straws. I don’t even know where
she keeps the straws.”
“I see,” Mr. Klutz said, rubbing his chin.
“I thought it had something to do with a
hockey game that got out of control. And
there’s this little matter of forgetting to
bring in current events.”
“Well, that too.”
Mr. Klutz didn’t look like he was going
to torture me. In fact, he didn’t look mad
at all.
“You may not believe this,” he told me,
“but I was a boy once.”
1516
“Just once?” I asked. “I’m a boy all the
time.”
“No, what I mean is, I used to be young
like you.”
“I’ll bet you were really good in school,”
I said.
“No, actually, it was just the opposite,”
the principal told me. “I didn’t like school
at all, and I wasn’t a very good student.”
“Really?” I figured that anybody who
grew up to be a principal must have loved
school as a kid. Why else would you want
to hang around a school all day as a
grown-up? Except maybe to boss teachers
around.
“When I was a boy, I could never sitstill,” Mr. Klutz said. “I wanted to run
around all the time. I didn’t have the
motivation to do my schoolwork. Do you
know what motivation is, A.J.?”
“It’s like a motor inside you that makes
you want to do stuff,” I said. “That’s why
it’s called motor-vation.”
“I guess you could say that,” Mr. Klutz
said. “Sometimes my mother would give
me a little reward if I did a good job on
my homework. A piece of candy, for
instance. You see, while I didn’t like
school, I certainly did like candy. So I
would try hard in school in order to get
the candy. Does that make sense to you?”
“Well, sure.”
“A.J., if I were to give you some candy,
do you think it might help you remember to bring in your current event next
time?”
“My parents told me never to take candy
from strangers,” I told him.
“I’m not a stranger,” Mr. Klutz said. “Did
you ever hear anyone say ‘your principal
is your pal’? If you need to spell the word
principal, you can always remember, your
principal is your p-a-l. Get it?”
“Well, if you put it that way, I suppose
I could take some candy.”
Mr. Klutz reached into his desk
drawer and pulled out a chocolate bar.
It was the kind with marshmallowinside, and caramel. My mouth was
watering. “Go easy with the hockey.
And let’s see if you can remember to
bring in that current event tomorrow,”
he said as he handed me the candy bar.
“Don’t tell anyone about this, okay? It’s
just a little secret between you and me.”
“Okay!”
I ran out of the office just in case he
had only given me the candy bar so he
could tie me to a chair and torture me.
Chapter Four
The Present
When I got back to the class, everybody
looked at me. I guess they wanted to see
if I was crying or bleeding or anything.
“Did Klutz bring you down into his torture chamber?” Ryan whispered when I
sat in my seat.
“Nope,” I said. “He gave me a present.”
“What did he give you?”
“I can’t tell you.”
“Oh, come on!”
“I promised I wouldn’t tell.”
“I’ll be your best friend.”
“Well, okay. I’ll show you at lunch.”
During lunch, I sat at a table with my
new best friend Ryan, Michael, smartypants Andrea, and Emily, who cries all the
time even if she isn’t hurt or anything.
You should have seen their eyes bug out
when I showed them the candy bar.
“Where did you get that ?” Michael
asked. “Your mom usually gives you
carrot sticks for dessert.”
“Mr. Klutz gave it to me,” I explained. “He’s got a whole drawer filled with
them.”
“Why did he give you a candy bar?”
asked Emily. I could tell she was jealous.
“Because I didn’t bring in my current
event,” I explained.
“Wait a minute!” Andrea said, all angry
and all. “You got sent to the principal’s
office for being bad, and instead of punishing you, he gave you a candy bar?
That’s not fair! I brought in three current
events and I didn’t get a candy bar.”
“Maybe you should try not being so
perfect all the time,” I said. “You can have
my carrot sticks, Andrea.”
I love getting Andrea mad. She thinks
she knows everything. Whenever we
have a homework assignment, she does
extra work just to show Miss Daisy how
smart she is and to make the rest of us
look bad.
“Mr. Klutz told me he’s my pal,” I said,
biting off a big piece of the chocolate bar
right in front of Andrea’s face. “He said I
could come in for a candy bar any time I
want one.”
That last part wasn’t exactly true, but it
was fun to say anyway.
“The principal should give candy to students who complete their assignments,”
Andrea said. “Not to kids who don’t.”
“Yeah,” Emily sniffed. She looked likeshe might run out of the room crying like
she usually does for no reason.
“I want to go to the principal’s office!”
my best friend Ryan announced.
“Me too!” Michael agreed. “I want a
candy bar!”
They all watched while I finished off
the candy. I licked the extra chocolate off
my fingers and rubbed my tummy, just to
make sure they would know how good it
was.
Chapter Five
My Big Mouth
It just so happens that I know of the perfect way to get sent to the principal’s
office. All you have to do is put a tack on
the teacher’s chair. My friend Billy told
me he did this once and he got sent to
the principal’s office.
I waited until recess, when Andrea and
Emily ran off to play with the girls. Then
I told the plan to my best friend Ryan and
Michael.
“That’s genius!” exclaimed my best
friend Ryan.
“What if Miss Daisy gets hurt?” asked
Michael. “She won’t get hurt,” I told him. “She’ll
jump up so fast that she won’t hardly feel
it.”
So at the end of recess, the three of us
snuck back into our classroom. It was
empty. Miss Daisy was eating in the
teacher’s room. Ryan pulled a tack out of
the bulletin board and put it on Miss
Daisy’s chair. Then we ran out to the
playground just as the end-of-recess bell
was ringing. When we filed back into the
class, Ryan, Michael, and I could barely
look at one another because we were
afraid we’d burst out laughing. I could
hardly wait to see the look on Miss
Daisy’s face when she sat on her chair.
Well, when Miss Daisy sat down, the
most amazing thing happened.
Nothing! She didn’t jump up or anything. She just sat there. Me and Ryan
and Michael looked at one another. How
could she not feel that?
“She must have buns of steel!” Ryan
whispered.
“She’s like Superman.”
Then I realized that I had forgotten to
tell Ryan something very important.
When you put a tack on the teacher’s
chair, you’re supposed to put the tack a
little bit on one side. When you put it in
the middle of the chair, the tack sort of . . .
well . . . you know, it doesn’t have anytarget to hit, if you know what I mean.
Miss Daisy got up to do math, not even
realizing there was a tack in her butt.
When she turned around to write on the
chalkboard, we could see the tack was
just stuck there, hanging in the middle of
her backside.
Me and Ryan and Michael thought
we were going to die trying to keep ourselves from laughing. It was probably the
funniest thing that had ever happened
in the history of the world. You should
have been there!
“Excuse me,” said Andrea, raising her
hand to ruin everybody’s fun like always.
“Miss Daisy, I think there’s something
stuck to your skirt.”
Miss Daisy turned around and pulled
out the tack. “Who did this?” she demanded.
“I did!” Ryan bragged.
“Go to the principal’s office, Ryan.” “All right!” Ryan whispered, pumping
his fist. “I’ll be back in a few minutes with
a candy bar!”
“Is there anyone else who wants to go to
the principal’s office?” Miss Daisy asked.
“I do!” said Michael.
“Can I go again?” I said.
“Hey, I asked first!” Michael complained.
“Quiet, both of you.”
Miss Daisy pretended nothing unusual
had happened and went back to her
lesson, but I saw her look at her chair
carefully before she sat down again.
A few minutes later Ryan came back to
the classroom. Mr. Klutz was with him.
“So did he give you a candy bar?” I
whispered excitedly when Ryan sat
down.
“No,” Ryan whispered back. “When I
told him that I thought he would give me
a candy bar like he gave one to you, he
got really upset. He told me he was going
to call my parents and have them come
in to talk about what happened. I think
we’re all in big trouble.”
Oh, man! I decided that maybe it
wouldn’t be such a good idea to be best
friends with Ryan anymore. I should
have kept my big mouth shut about the
candy bar.
Chapter Six
The Chocolate Party
When I thought about it, putting a tack
on Miss Daisy’s chair was a pretty dumb
thing to do.
Mr. Klutz went to the front of the class.
I was sure he was going to bring all of us
to the torture chamber in the basement.
But he didn’t look all that mad, considering what we had done.
“It has come to my attention that some
of the students at our school need a little
extra incentive to behave and work their
hardest,” Mr. Klutz said. “Do you know
what the word incentive means?” “An incentive is a reward that encourages a person to work harder to achieve
something,” Andrea announced, all proud
of herself. She thinks she knows everything. I hate her.
“Very good, Andrea,” said Mr. Klutz.
“What sort of incentive might bring out
the best work in the students of our
school?”
“You could give us each a million dollars,” suggested Michael.
“You could make summer vacation last
all year long,” I said.
“How about getting rid of homework?”
asked Ryan.
Miss Daisy went to the front of the
room. “Mr. Klutz can’t do those things,”
she said. “But remember when all the students in our school read a million pages
in books, and as a reward we turned the
gym into a video-game arcade? That was
quite successful. Mr. Klutz even dressed
up in a gorilla suit for the evening, if I
recall.”
“How about a chocolate party?” suggested Andrea.
“Yeah!” everybody yelled.
“Mmmm,” said Miss Daisy. “I like that
idea!”
We all got very excited, because if there
is one thing that just about everybody
loves, it’s chocolate. Kids started shoutingout things we could have
at the party, like chocolate
cupcakes and chocolate
fudge and chocolate bunnies and chocolate ice
cream and on and on and
on.
“But wait a minute,” Mr.
Klutz said. “What are you
going to do to earn this
chocolate party?”
“We could read another
million pages,” suggested
Ryan.
“We did that already,”
Emily said.
“How about a million math problems?”
I said.
“What a wonderful idea!” Miss Daisy
beamed. Ever since we taught her how to
add and subtract, Miss Daisy loved math.
“Math is hard,” Ryan said. “How about
a hundred math problems?”
“One million math problems,” Mr.
Klutz insisted. “That’s my final offer. Take
it or leave it.”
“We’ll take it!” we all yelled.
“Agreed. If the kids in our school do
one million math problems, I’ll throw a
party with so much chocolate, you’ll be
sick for a week.”
“I’ll bring the bonbons,” Miss Daisy volunteered. “Hooray!” we all yelled, except for Ryan
who looked all mad.
“I’m not going to spend my free time
doing math,” Ryan said. “I hate math. I
wouldn’t do extra math if you kissed a
pig on the lips.”
“Okay, as an added incentive,” Mr.
Klutz said, “on the night of the party, I
will kiss a pig on the lips. Have a nice
day.”
“All right!”
What a cool, wacky guy Mr. Klutz is!
He is the coolest principal in the history
of the world.
Chapter Seven
Teacher for a Day
The news about the big chocolate party
blew through the school like a hurricane.
Even kids who were allergic to chocolate
wanted to go, just so they could see Mr.
Klutz kiss a pig on the lips.
“Where is he going to get a pig?” Ryan
asked during lunch the next day.
“He could try A.J.’s house,” Andrea said.
“That’s so funny I forgot to laugh,” I said.
“I’m not entirely sure that pigs have
lips,” said Emily.
“Of course they have lips,” I insisted. “If
they didn’t have lips, how could they
whistle?” “You know,” Ryan pointed out, “Mr.
Klutz is just trying to trick us into doing
lots of math problems. That’s why we’re
having a chocolate party.”
“Who cares?” Michael said. “As long as
we get the chocolate.”
“I think that only students who do
math problems should be allowed to
come to the chocolate party,” said Andrea.
“Could you possibly be any more
boring?” I asked her.
As it turned out, everybody was doing
math problems. The whole school started
doing math problems like crazy. Even
Ryan. You would have thought that Mr.
Klutz was giving us gold and diamonds
instead of chocolate.
“I did math problems for twenty minutes last night,” Ryan bragged while we
were waiting for Miss Daisy after recess.
“Oh, yeah?” Michael said. “Well, I did
math problems for forty minutes last night. Forty is twice as many as twenty. See? I just
did another math problem right there!”
“Well I did math problems for an hour
last night,” I said. “That’s fifty whole minutes.”
“An hour is sixty minutes, dumbhead,”
Andrea told me.
I was going to tell her that Sixty
Minutes was a TV show my parents
watch, but Mr. Klutz suddenly burst into
our classroom. He told us that Miss Daisy
had a dentist appointment and we would
have a substitute teacher for the rest of
the afternoon . . . Mr. Klutz!
We all gasped.
“You’re not a teacher!” I told him.
“I used to be a teacher,” he said. “I
taught for many years before I became a
principal.”
“What did you teach?” Ryan asked.
“Physics,” he said.
“What’s that?” I asked.
“Is that like phys ed?” asked Michael.
“Mr. Klutz, do you know that this is
second grade?” Andrea pointed out.
“Physics is something high school students study.”
“Poppycock!” said Mr. Klutz. “You’re
never too young to learn something new.
You may find you’re smarter than you
think.”
“Well, if you say so.”
“Physics is the study of motion and
energy and force,” he said. “For example,
if I take a blackboard eraser in one hand
and a book in the other hand, and I drop
them at the same time, which one will hit
the floor first?”
“The eraser!” I said. “It’s smaller and
lighter, so it will fall faster. Just like small,
light kids run faster than big, heavy kids.”
“No, the book will hit the floor first!”
insisted Ryan. “Bigger and heavier things
build up more speed than little things.”
“I think they’ll both hit the floor at the
same time,” said Andrea.
“Let’s do a test,” said Mr. Klutz.
He put the eraser in his left hand and a
paperback book in his right hand. Then
he climbed on top of Miss Daisy’s desk
and held both objects up in the air. Then
he dropped them.The eraser and the book hit the ground
at the exact same moment.
“I told you so,” said Andrea. I think I
hate her more every day.
“According to the laws of physics, all
objects fall at the exact same rate,” Mr.
Klutz told us. “See? You’re learning physics
in second grade!”
“Wait a minute!” said Michael. “That’s
not a fair test because the eraser and the
book are almost the same size and weight.”
“Yeah,” Ryan said. “Try it with different
objects.”
“Okay,” Mr. Klutz said as he picked up
a pencil off Miss Daisy’s desk. Then he
went over to the windowsill, where Miss
Daisy kept her collection of stuffed animals. He picked up a giraffe that was
almost as big as I am. “Would this be a
fair test?” he asked.
“Yeah!” we all shouted.
“Now, which object do you think will
hit the floor first?” he said as he climbed
up on top of Miss Daisy’s desk again.
“The pencil!” some of us shouted.
“The giraffe!” other kids yelled.
“I think they will both hit the floor at
the same instant,” said Andrea.
“Okay, let’s do a test,” said Mr. Klutz.
As he raised both his arms in the air,
Mr. Klutz put his foot on a crayon that
was sitting on Miss Daisy’s desk. Itrolled a little. His foot slipped. He wobbled for a moment, trying to keep his
balance. Then he pitched headfirst off
the desk.
“Watch out!”
Crash!
When he hit the floor, the pencil and
the giraffe went flying, and Mr. Klutz’s
arms and legs went in different directions. It was just about the funniest
thing that ever happened in the history
of the world. You should have been
there.
We all ran over to see if Mr. Klutz was
okay. He was holding his leg and
moaning.
“See?” Andrea said. “All three objects hit
the ground at the same time. The pencil,
the giraffe, and Mr. Klutz. So I was right.”
I hate her.
Chapter Eight
Mr. Klutz Puckers Up
When Mr. Klutz got back from the hospital, we were all relieved to hear that he
hadn’t broken any bones. He was limping, though, and told us he would have
to use a cane for a week.
We were afraid he might call off the
chocolate party, but he was more excited
about it than ever.
Everybody in the whole school got
involved doing math problems so we
could win the party, even the teachers.
During library period, Mrs. Roopy asked
us questions like, “If the library had ahundred books and you checked out fifty
of them, how many would be left in the
library?”
During music period, Mr. Hynde asked
us questions like, “If the school only has
ten trumpets and six kids sign up to take
trumpet lessons, how many more kids
can sign up for trumpet lessons?”
Miss Daisy made a big tote board so we
would know how many math problems
we had completed. Every day, she tallied
up all the math problems on her tote
board.
It wasn’t long before the school had
finished a million math problems.
Andrea did the problem that put us
over the top — of course. I hate her.
On the night of the chocolate party,
you should have seen the gym! They had
music and games, and tables were set up
with chocolate chip cookies, chocolate
cake, chocolate muffins, and even broccoli covered with chocolate. Yuck!
By the end of the party, I thought I was
going to throw up. It was the greatest
night of my life.
At nine o’clock somebody came in
with this big pig on a leash. I don’t know
where they got it. The zoo, I guess. We
all watched as the pig was brought over
to Mr. Klutz. He wrinkled his face up
and acted like he was all disgusted (Mr. Klutz, that is, not the pig).
When he bent over and kissed the pig
on the lips, the whole school went crazy.
Even the pig freaked out, oinking and
squealing and running around the gym
until the grown-ups were able to catch it.
It was a real Kodak moment, if you ask
me.
Chapter Nine
I Pledge Allegiance to Mr. Klutz
“I want to congratulate all you kids,” Mr.
Klutz said over the loudspeaker on
Monday morning during announcements.
“You did it! One million math problems.
That’s quite an accomplishment! See, all
you needed was a little incentive.
“This has been such a huge success that
I have decided to challenge you again,” he
continued. “Election Day is coming up in
November. This is a very important day in
America. I think every child in this school
should write an essay about what it means
to have elections. And if you achieve this
goal by Election Day, I will climb the flag-pole in front of the school and recite the
Pledge of Allegience when I get to the top.”
“I hope he doesn’t hurt himself again,”
said Emily.
“I’ll write my essay during recess,” said
Andrea, who always does everything the
second any grown-up tells her to instead
of waiting as long as possible, like a
normal kid.
“Couldn’t we just write one essay for
the whole class?” I asked Miss Daisy. “That
would be a lot easier.”
Mr. Klutz’s voice came out of the loudspeaker again. “I know some of you will
ask if you can write a class essay. The
answer is no. If you want to see me
shinny up the flagpole, each student
must write their own essay. That’s my
final offer. Take it or leave it. And I’ll tell
you what. When we have all the essays, I
will send them to the president to read.
Have a nice day.”
The thought of the president of the
United States reading our personal words
was pretty cool, I had to admit. Everybody
finished their Election Day essays so
quickly, we were done a week before
Election Day. Some kids (like Andrea)
even wrote two essays.
On the morning of Election Day, all the
students and teachers gathered on the
grass in front of the school. Mr. Klutzcame out of the door. He was wearing a
red, white, and blue Uncle Sam costume.
He also had on sneakers and one of those
harnesses that lumberjacks use to climb
trees. His leg was all better and he didn’t
walk with a cane anymore.
We all let out a roar when Mr. Klutz
started to shinny up the flagpole. I was a
little afraid that he was going to fall and
break his leg or something, but he didn’t.
For a principal, he was a good climber!
When he got to the top, we all recited
the Pledge of Allegience with him. Then
everybody let out a cheer.
When he was sliding down the flagpole, Mr. Klutz got his foot caught in the
rope that holds the flag. As he was trying
to get his foot loose, his hand slipped and
he fell. The next thing we knew, Mr. Klutz
was hanging upside down from the flagpole. His Uncle Sam hat fell off.
Everybody gasped.
Mr. Klutz was just hanging there, halfway up the flagpole, like he was another
flag or something. It would have been
the funniest thing in the history of the
world if we didn’t honestly think Mr.
Klutz was going to fall and land on his
head.
“Help!” he shouted. “My foot is caught
in the rope!”
“Quick! Get some pads from the gymfor him to land on!”
yelled Mrs. Roopy, the
school librarian.
“Call the fire
department!” yelled
Mrs. Cooney, the
nurse. Everybody was
running around like
crazy, and nobody
knew what to do. It
looked like Mr. Klutz
would have to just
hang there from the
flagpole all day.
“He’ll figure a way
out of this,” I told the
kids in my class. “When the blood rushes
to his head, it helps him think.”
But it was Miss Daisy who came up
with a great idea. She went over to the
bottom of the flagpole, where the rope
is tied up. She took the knot out and
held both ends of the rope tight. Then,
slowly and carefully, she began to let
out some rope and lower Mr. Klutz
down the flagpole, just like he was a
regular flag.
When he reached the bottom, the
teachers caught him and loosened the
rope from his foot. He was okay, he said,
except for the rope burns on his leg.
“Hooray for Miss Daisy!” our classcheered. After he was back on the ground,
Mr. Klutz got up, brushed himself off, and
walked up the front steps, like it was
totally normal for a principal to hang
upside down from a flagpole.
Mr. Klutz is nuts!
Chapter Ten
Mr. Klutz Is Getting Weirder
“Your Election Day essays were fantastic,”
Mr. Klutz told our class the next morning.
He had a big bandage wrapped around his
head. I’m guessing he must have either
crashed his skateboard again or found
another flagpole to fall off.
“Thank you!” we all said.
“But I was a little surprised by the
number of spelling errors I found in them,”
he continued. “We need to improve the
spelling at our school. So here is what I
have decided to do. If you students can
7172
write out a list of one hundred thousand
spelling words by Thanksgiving, I will
dress up in a turkey costume and ride a
pogo stick down Main Street.”
“Yayyyyyyy!” everybody hollered.
“How about one thousand spelling
words?” shouted Ryan.
“One hundred thousand spelling words,”
Mr. Klutz repeated. “That’s my final offer.
Take it or leave it. And every word must be
spelled correctly. Have a nice day.”
During lunch, I was sure that Andrea
was going to start her list of spelling
words just to show how smart she was.
But she didn’t. She just kind of sat there,
picking at her food quietly.“You know, I’ve been thinking,” she
finally said. “I’m beginning to wonder if
something might be wrong with Mr. Klutz.”
“Like what?” Emily asked.
“Maybe he has some kind of a personal
problem.”
“What do you mean?” Michael asked.
“Mr. Klutz is a cool guy. Would you rather
have a boring principal?”
“My mother is a psychologist,” Andrea
said, “and she says that people sometimes
do weird things for reasons that are buried
deep within their mind.”
“What does that mean?” I asked.
“It means she thinks Mr. Klutz is nuts,”
said Michael.
7374
“I didn’t say that,” Andrea went on. “All
I’m saying is that maybe he didn’t want
to climb up the flagpole. Maybe he
doesn’t want to put on a turkey costume.
Maybe he just wants people to like him,
and the only way he knows to show that
is to do nutty things. Maybe he’s a sad,
unhappy man. Maybe all he wants is a
hug or something.”
“That’s the saddest story I ever heard!”
Emily said. Then she started sobbing.
Me, Ryan, and Michael looked at one
another. We all rolled our eyes up in our
heads.
“Mr. Klutz is cool,” Ryan said. “You’re
the one who has some kind of a personalproblem, Andrea.”
“Maybe Mr. Klutz is nuts,” I said. “In
fact, maybe he’s not a principal at all.
Did you ever think of that? Maybe Mr.
Klutz escaped from a home for the criminally insane and he’s just pretending to
be a principal. Maybe our real principal
is tied up to a chair in the dungeon
down in the basement. My friend Billy
told me—”
“There is no dungeon down in the
basement,” Emily insisted. “That’s just
one of those urban legends.”
“Sure, that’s just what he wants us to
believe!” I told Emily. “He doesn’t want us
to know our real principal is tied up to a
7576
chair down there. He probably tortures
him during summer vacation.”
“I think you guys are nuts,” Emily said.
“I’m worried about Mr. Klutz,” Andrea
said, biting her fingernails.
Chapter Eleven
The Last Straw
I don’t know if all that mumbo jumbo
Andrea said was true or not. But I had to
admit, Mr. Klutz was acting weirder and
weirder.
After we finished the list of a hundred
thousand spelling words and he pogo
sticked down Main Street in a turkey
costume, he offered to paint his bald
head orange if our school got the highest
reading score in the county. We did, and
he came into school the next day with an
orange head.
Then he offered to let every kid in the
school shoot a Ping-Pong ball at him ifwe collected enough box tops to buy new
computers for the school media center.
We did that, too.
It was fun shooting Ping-Pong balls at
Mr. Klutz, but even I was beginning to
worry that there was something troubling him.
And then came the day when it was
obvious to everybody that Mr. Klutz had
gone off the deep end. It was at the end of
morning announcements. Miss Daisy had
stepped out of the room for a minute.
“Boys and girls,” Mr. Klutz said over the
loudspeaker, “winter vacation is coming
up. If the students at our school read
with their parents for one million
minutes before school lets out, I will
bungee-jump off the roof of the school
dressed as Santa Claus!”
Me and Ryan and Emily and Andrea
and Michael all looked at one another. “That’s the last straw!” Andrea said.
“There are plenty of straws,” I told her.
“Do you want me to get you one?”
“She means we can’t take this anymore,”
Ryan told me.
“Is that what the last straw means?” I
asked. “I always wondered what the last
straw meant.”
“At first I thought Mr. Klutz was just a
funny guy,” Andrea said seriously. “And he
is. But he’s also a deeply disturbed man.
We’ve got to do something. If he keeps
going like this, he might hurt himself
again. Or even worse. If we don’t stop him
and something terrible happens, it would
be our fault.”
“I never thought of it that way,” I said.
“What can we do?” Emily asked. “We’re
just kids.”
“We have to have an intervention,”
Andrea said.
“What’s that?” Ryan asked.
“It’s when you sit down and tell somebody they have a problem,” Andrea
explained. “You force them to do something about it. My mother has to do interventions all the time.”
“I’m not telling Mr. Klutz he has a problem,” Ryan said.
“Me neither,” agreed Michael.
“A.J., you started this whole thing,”
Andrea told me.“I did not!”
“Sure you did. You were the one who
gave him the idea to give out incentives
for learning in the first place.”
“That’s true,” the others agreed, looking at me like I was a criminal or something.
“All I did was hit a puck into Annette,” I said.
“A.J., you’ve got to tell Mr. Klutz that if
he bungee-jumps off the roof, we’re not
going to read one minute with our parents,” Andrea said. “Two can play at this
game. If he’s going to do crazy things, we
won’t read any more books. We won’t
spell any more words. We won’t do any
more math problems. We won’t learn
anything.”
I couldn’t believe I was hearing this
from Andrea. Her idea of having fun is to
read the dictionary during recess. If she
was willing to give up learning, she must
be really serious about Mr. Klutz and his
problems.
“But if we stop learning stuff,” I
protested, “we’ll get dumber.”
“In your case,” Andrea told me, “that
would be impossible.”
Chapter Twelve
A Hard Bargain
That afternoon we talked Miss Daisy into
letting us go to Mr. Klutz’s office for a
meeting.
“We need to speak with Mr. Klutz,”
Andrea told the school secretary. “It’s very
important.”
“It’s a matter of life and death,” Ryan
said.
The secretary let us in. Mr. Klutz wasn’t
hanging from the ceiling or anything. He
had on boxing gloves and he was punching his punching bag.
“May I help you kids?” he asked.
“Go ahead, A.J.,” Andrea said, giving me
a shove from behind. “Mr. Klutz,” I told him, “we have come
to make a deal with you.”
“Really? What kind of deal?”
“We decided that we will read a million
minutes with our parents, but only if you
don’t jump off the roof.”
“Only if I don’t jump off the roof?” he88
said, looking puzzled. “But I was going to
jump off the roof as an incentive to
encourage you to read with your parents
at night.”
“Well, we’re going to read with our parents at night as an incentive to make you
not jump off the roof.”
“This is highly unusual,” Mr. Klutz said.
“I thought the principal should offer the
students incentives, not the other way
around.”
“Your incentives have been getting
more and more dangerous,” Andrea told
him. “We’re afraid that you might get
killed trying to help us learn.”
“Yeah, and if you die, we’ll feel guilty,”
I added. “Now, let me get this straight,” Mr. Klutz
said. “I offered to jump off the roof if you
read a million minutes at night with your
parents. But you are saying you will only
read a million minutes with your parents
if I don’t jump off the roof. Correct?”
“That’s right,” we said.
“What if I jumped off the basketball
backboard in the gym into a swimming
pool filled with foam blocks?” Mr. Klutz
asked. “Would that be okay?”
“No!” we all said.
“Can I wear a suit made of bubble wrap
and jump off the stage in the auditorium?”
“No!”
“No jumping off anything,” Andrea
insisted. “Not if you want us to read or
write or do math. That’s our final offer.
Take it or leave it.”
“You drive a hard bargain.” Mr. Klutz
sighed. “Okay, I won’t jump.”
“Have a nice day!” we all said.
Chapter Thirteen
Poor Mr. Klutz
The kids in the other grades were disappointed when they heard that Mr. Klutz
had changed his mind about bungeejumping off the roof of the school. Some
of them were even mad at us for stopping
him.
But when it was announced that there
would be a field trip to Water World if we
reached our goal instead, they stopped
being mad. Water World is probably the
coolest water park in California.
A few days before vacation, the school93
still hadn’t reached our goal of a million
minutes of reading with our parents. It
looked like we were not going to make it
in time.
Then Mr. Klutz got on the loudspeaker during morning announcements.
“Students, there are three more nights to
go before vacation,” he told us. “I hate to
do this, but if you don’t reach your goal
by Friday, the field trip to Water World
will be called off and I will have no
choice but to jump off the roof. Have a
nice day.”
After hearing that, everybody started
reading with their parents like crazy.
Even the sixth graders, who say that94
reading isn’t cool. Everybody wanted to
go to Water World. We reached a million
minutes the day before school let out for
vacation.
The field trip to Water World was awesome! They had about a hundred giant
water slides, and in some of them you
slid in the dark with laser beams shooting all over the place. We got to eat as
much pizza and ice cream as we wanted.
They also had one of those giant,
inflatable moon bounce thingies where
you jump around like crazy inside it.
After water sliding, eating all that junk
food, and bouncing in the moon bounce,
I thought I was going to throw up. It wasthe greatest day of my life.
Me and Ryan and Emily and Andrea
and Michael went looking for Mr. Klutz
to thank him. We found him standing
next to the moon bounce thingy.
“Great party!” I told Mr. Klutz, and we
all gave him a big hug. “If you ask me,
you’re the greatest principal in the history of the world.”
“Thanks, A.J.!”
“See, you didn’t need to bungee-jump
off the school to make us learn,” Andrea
said.
“I guess not,” Mr. Klutz said. He was
looking up at the moon bounce. “But I
was just thinking, if we brought one of
these moon bounce things out to the
front of the school, and I went up on the
roof—”
“No!” we all yelled.
“I wouldn’t even need a bungee cord—”
“No!”
“It’s pretty soft—”
“No!”
I think it’s going to be very hard work
helping Mr. Klutz get over this need he
has to do nutty things. Maybe by June, if
the whole school works together, we
might be able to cure him.
But it won’t be easy.


