My Weird School Book number three
Mrs. Roopy is loopy!
Chapter One
That Army Guy
My name is A.J. and I hate school.
If you ask me, they shouldn’t teach
kids how to read and write in school.
They shouldn’t teach math. They should
teach kids how to do tricks on their bikes.
That’s what I want to learn! But my
teacher, Miss Daisy, thinks reading and
writing and math are really important for
some reason.
Miss Daisy told us to write a story for
homework and draw a picture to go with
it. We read the stories out loud the next
day in class.
Andrea Young, who thinks she knows
everything, made up
a story about a
family of flowers who were
sad because it
was cloudy
outside. Then
the sun came
out and the
flowers got happy again.
It was a really dumb story, if you ask
me. Flowers aren’t happy or sad. They
just sit there and do nothing. They don’t
even have families! But Miss Daisy kept
telling Andrea how great the story was.
My story was about these giant maneating monsters fighting on trick bikes in
outer space until they were all dead. I
drew cool pictures to go with it. Emily, this
girl with red hair, said my story was scary.
But Emily thinks everything is scary.
Miss Daisy said I had a good imagination, but she asked me if next time I
could try to write a story that didn’t have
so much violence in it.
“What’s violent about giant man-eating
monsters fighting on trick bikes in outer
space?” I asked. Everybody laughed even
though I didn’t say anything funny.
Andrea said maybe I could have the
man-eating monsters make up at the end
of the story and tell each other they were
sorry.
“Monsters don’t apologize!” I said.
Everybody knows that. Andrea doesn’t
know anything about monsters.
We were arguing about it when all of a
sudden some funny-looking guy marched
into our classroom. He was all dressed up
in a fancy army uniform. He had a white
wig on his head and a sword in his hand.
“To be prepared for war is the best way
to keep the peace!” the army guy said.
Then he marched out of the classroom.
“Who was that?” asked my friend
Michael, who never ties his shoes no
matter how many times he trips over the
laces.
“Beats me,” I said.
“Was that Principal Klutz?” asked my
other friend Ryan, who sits next to me in
the third row.
“I don’t know who it was,” Miss Daisy
said, “but he is heading for the library.
We’d better go check it out! Okay, second
graders. Single file!”
Chapter Two
The Librarian
Michael was the line leader. Andrea was
the door holder. We went to the library,
which is brand-new and didn’t even exist
last year when we were in first grade.
They built it over the summer to replace
the junky old library we used to have.
A library is the part in the school where
they have hundreds of books that you
can bring home with you. You don’t even
have to pay for them. And it’s not even
illegal! The only problem is you have to
bring the books back after you’re done
reading them.
My friend Billy around the corner, who
was in second grade last year, told me
that if you don’t bring back your library
books on time, the librarian locks you in
a dungeon under the school. I’m not sure
I believe him.
“Our new librarian is Mrs. Roopy,” Miss
Daisy told us as we lined up in the hallway outside the library. “Everybody be on
your best behavior so you’ll make a good
impression on her.”
“I’m always on my best behavior,” saidAndrea Young. She made a big dopey
smile at Miss Daisy. Andrea is so annoying.
If somebody told her to be on her worst
behavior, she wouldn’t know what to do.
When we went into the new library, we
were shocked. Right in the middle of the
room was a giant tree! It had a big tree
house at the top near the ceiling and a
ladder going up to it.
“What’s with the tree?” I asked.
“Beats me,” said Ryan. “How do you
think they got it into the library?”
“Maybe it just grew in here over the
summer,” guessed Michael.
“Trees don’t grow in libraries,” said
Andrea, as if she knows anything about
trees.
“They must have built
it,” said Emily.
“You don’t build trees,
dumbhead,” I told Emily, and she looked all
hurt like she was
going to cry.
The tree wasreally cool. Some of us started to climb it,
but Miss Daisy said we had to get off
because it was time for library period to
start.
“Where’s the new librarian?” Ryan asked. We were all looking around, but
we didn’t see Mrs. Roopy anywhere.
Then, suddenly, that army guy with
the wig poked his head out of the tree
house. He came down the ladder. I think
it was a he, anyway. He looked a little like
a lady dressed like an army guy.
When he got to the bottom, the army
guy with the wig stood all straight and
proud at attention. He gave us a salute.
“Are you Mrs. Roopy?” I asked.
“Certainly not,” the army guy said. “My
name is George Washington. I am the
first president of the United States and
father of our country.”
Chapter Three
George
Washington’s
Teeth
I’m no dumbhead. My mom told me that
George Washington had wooden teeth.
So this army guy with the wig couldn’t
be George Washington unless he had
wooden teeth.
“If you’re really George Washington,
let’s see your teeth,” I said. The army guy
with the wig reached into his pocket and
pulled out a set of teeth. Then he wound
a little thing on it and the teeth started
chattering up and down in his hand.
Emily took one look at the teeth and
ran out of the room crying. That girl cries
at anything.
“Wow!” I said. “Maybe he is George
Washington. Those teeth are cool! I wish
I had wooden teeth.”
“You can’t fool me,” Andrea Young said.
“You’re not George Washington. You’re
Mrs. Roopy, the new librarian, dressed up
to look like George Washington. You’re
supposed to read stories to us and help
us use the computers.”
“Computers?” George Washington said,
his forehead all wrinkly. “I don’t know
what you’re talking about, young lady.
This is the year 1790. Computers haven’t
been invented yet.”
No matter what we said, the army guy
with the wig insisted that he was really
George Washington. He read us a story
about when he was a boy and he
chopped down a cherry tree. Then he
showed us a bunch of
books about the
United States. All
through library
period, the
army guy with
the
wig said that
he was George
Washington. After a while, we started
calling him George Washington.
“General Washington,” I asked, “may I
go to the bathroom?” Everybody laughed
even though I didn’t say anything funny.
Kids think anything to do with bathrooms
is funny. If you want to make your friends
laugh, all you have to do is stick your face
in their face and say either “bathroom” or
“underwear.” It works every time.
“I’m sorry,” George Washington said.
“This is the year 1790. Bathrooms have
not been invented yet.”
It wasn’t an emergency or anything, so
I waited. We were allowed to check out
any book we wanted from the library. I
took out a book about jet fighter planes
because it had cool pictures in it.
For a president, this George Washington
guy seemed to know a lot about finding
books in the library and checking them
out.
It was time to go to lunch. We all had
to salute George Washington as we left
the library.
“Hey, how come you chopped down
that cherry tree, anyhow?” I asked him as
we left the library.
“I cannot tell a lie,” he said. “I needed
some wood for my wooden teeth.” Then
he showed us his chattering teeth again.
I’m still not sure if that army guy with the
wig was George Washington or not. But
he was weird.
Chapter Four
Dumbheads
I took a seat in the lunchroom next to
Ryan and Michael. Ryan stuck two of my
carrot sticks in his nose, and I told him I’d
give him a nickel if he ate them. He did,
too. Me, I won’t even eat carrot sticks
before you stick them in your nose.
“Do you think that guy was really
George Washington?” Ryan asked.
“I don’t know,” Michael said. “What do
you think, A.J.?”
That’s when Andrea Young leaned over
from the next table and opened her big
mouth.
“That wasn’t George Washington, you
dumbheads!” she said. “That was Mrs.
Roopy wearing a powdered wig and an
army uniform. ”She may have been right, but I didn’t
want to admit it, because I hate her. Ryan
took out a dollar bill from his backpack
and looked at the picture of George
Washington.
“He sure looked like George Washington,” Ryan said.
“George Washington has been dead for
like a hundred years!” Andrea said.
“Even if George Washington was still
alive,” Emily said, “I’m sure he would
have more important things to do than
come to our school and read us stories.”
That’s when it hit me. If that army guy
was really Mrs. Roopy dressed up as
George Washington, maybe Mrs. Roopy
isn’t a librarian at all!
“Maybe she’s just pretending to be a
librarian,” I said, “just like she was pretending to be George Washington.”
“Yeah!” Michael said. “Maybe she’s a
kidnapper and she’s got our real librarian
locked up in an empty warehouse at the
edge of town. I saw that in a movie once.”
“We’ve got to save her!” Emily said withtears dribbling down her cheeks. Then
she went running out of the room.
There was only one way to solve the
problem. We cleaned off our trays and
went back to our classroom to ask Miss
Daisy if George Washington was really
Mrs. Roopy in disguise.
“Don’t be silly,” Miss Daisy said. “As it
turns out, Mrs. Roopy is absent today.
She’s home sick in bed. It must have been
the real George Washington.”
But what does Miss Daisy know?
Everybody knows Miss Daisy is crazy.
Chapter Five
Mrs. Roopy’s
Hero
Everybody in our class was excited before
the next library period. We all wanted to
see if George Washington would be there
again.
When we got to the library, there was
just this lady who looked a little bit like
George Washington except she didn’t
have on an army uniform or a wig. She
looked like a normal lady.
“Good morning, second graders,” she
said. “My name is Mrs. Roopy. I’m sorry
I couldn’t be here the other day for your
library period.”
“But you were here!”
Ryan shouted.
“You must be
mistaken,” Mrs. Roopy said. “I was home
sick in bed.”
“Can we see your wooden teeth again?”
Michael asked.
“Yeah, can we?”
“Wooden teeth? Did you know that
George Washington didn’t have wooden
teeth at all? His mouth was filled with
cow’s teeth.”
“Ewww!” we all shouted.
I asked Mrs. Roopy, “Did the cow have
George Washington’s teeth in her mouth?”
“But that was you, wasn’t it, acting like
George Washington?” said Michael.
Mrs. Roopy’s forehead got all wrinkly
just like George Washington’s did when
we told him about computers. “I don’tknow what you’re talking about.”
We all looked at one another. I wasn’t
sure if she was telling the truth or not.
“If I were George Washington, would
I have this?” Mrs. Roopy asked. Then she
picked up her shirt and showed us her
belly. She had a
little tattoo of a
heart right over
her belly button. It was cool.
I had to admit
that George Washington
would never have a heartshaped tattoo over his
belly button. So maybe
that army guy with the
wig wasn’t Mrs. Roopy after all.
“Let me show you around the library,”
Mrs. Roopy said. “Did you know that
books can take you to places you have
never been before? They help us explore
our world. We have books here on just
about every subject you can think of.
This is the fiction section. Does anyone
know the difference between fiction and
nonfiction books?”
“Nonfiction books are books that are not
fiction,” Ryan said. “Because ‘non’ means
not, like nonfat milk has no fat in it.”
“And nonsense has no sense in it,”
Michael added.
“That’s true,” Mrs. Roopy said, “but
there’s a little more to it.” “Fiction is what you get when you rub
two things together,” I said.
Everybody laughed even though I
didn’t say anything funny.
“That’s friction, A.J.,” Andrea Young
said. “Fiction is a made-up story, and
non-fiction is based on facts.”
“That’s correct,” said Mrs. Roopy, and
she smiled at Andrea. I wished Andrea
would shut up.
“Oh, who cares what the difference
between fiction and nonfiction is?” I said.
“All books are boring.”
Everybody went “Ooooooh!” like I had
said something really terrible.
“But everybody needs to know how to
read, A.J.,” Mrs. Roopy said.
“Not me,” I said. “When I grow up, I’m
going to be a trick bike rider because you
don’t have to know how to read to do
tricks on a bike.”
“Yeah, me too,” said Michael and Ryan.
We told Mrs. Roopy that, every day after
school, me and Michael and Ryan ride
our bikes together. I learned how to ride
a two-wheeler in kindergarten. Now I can
do a bunny hop off a bump, and I know
the names of all the famous trick bike
riders. I have posters of them all over the
walls of my room.
“Gee, I don’t know much about bicycle
tricks, A.J.,” Mrs. Roopy said. “But I’ve got
posters of my hero on my walls at home
too.” “Who is your hero, Mrs. Roopy?” Andrea
asked.
“Melvil Dewey.”
“Melvil Whoey?” I asked.
“Melvil Dewey was a very famous
librarian,” Mrs. Roopy said, and her eyes
got all bright and sparkly and excited. “Librarians aren’t famous,” I said.
“Melvil Dewey was,” said Mrs. Roopy.
“He invented the number system we use
to find books in the library. If it weren’t
for Melvil Dewey, we would never be able
to find anything.”
“Wow!” Andrea Young said, as if she
was really interested in that boring stuff.
“So if you want to find books about
insects, you’d go to number 595,” Mrs.
Roopy said. “And if you want to find books
about dinosaurs, you’d go to number 567.
Libraries all over the world use the system
that Melvil Dewey invented. Today we call
it the Dewey decimal system.”
“Did all the kids at his school make fun
of him because his name was Melvil?” I
asked. I know that if there was a kid
named Melvil in our school, we would
make fun of him constantly.
“I don’t know,” Mrs. Roopy said. “But
would you like to hear a song I made up
about Melvil Dewey?”
“Yeah!” we all shouted. Listening to
songs had to be better than reading books.
Mrs. Roopy went into her office and
came back with a guitar and one of those
harmonica thingys you wear around
your neck. She strummed a few chords to
warm up.
“You may have heard a folktale about
John Henry, the steel-drivin’ man,” Mrs.
Roopy said. “Well, this is the story of
Melvil Dewey, the book-sortin’ man.”
And then she started to sing. . . .
When Melvil Dewey was a little bitty
baby,
The first words he said himself
Were “I’ve got to get these books off the
floor
And put them on the shelf. . . . ”Mrs. Roopy sang the whole song and
played her guitar and harmonica, too. It
was a pretty cool song. This Melvil Dewey
guy had a race with a computer to see
who could sort books the fastest. Melvil
won the race, but right after he sorted
the last book, he dropped dead right on
the floor of the library. It was cool.
At the end of the song, Andrea Young
got up and gave Mrs. Roopy a standing
ovation, so we all had to get up too.
“That’s the saddest story I ever heard in
my life,” Emily said, wiping tears from her
eyes.
At the end of the period, Mrs. Roopy
asked us if we had any questions about
how to use the library. “Is it true that if we don’t return our
library books on time you lock us in a
dungeon under the school?” I asked.
Everybody laughed even though I didn’t
say anything funny.
“Don’t be silly,” Mrs. Roopy said. “The
dungeon is on the third floor.” I think she
was telling a joke, but I’m not sure.
Chapter Six
Johnny Applesauce
When we came into the library the next
time, a guy with a long beard came down
the ladder from the tree house, wearing
blue-jean overalls. He was carrying a
shovel and a big sack. He had no shoes
on his feet, but he was wearing a pot on
his head. He looked funny, and he looked
a lot like Mrs. Roopy to me.
“Mrs. Roopy, why are you wearing a pot
on your head?” I asked.
“Roopy?” the guy said in a funny voice.
“You young ’uns must be confusin’ me
with some other feller. My name is Johnny
Appleseed. It’s the year 1800. I travel from
town to town plantin’ apple trees most
everywhere I wander.”
“You are not Johnny Appleseed!” Andrea
called out. “You’re Mrs. Roopy!”
“Ain’t never heard of no Roopy,” the
guy said, making his forehead all wrinkly.
“Appleseed’s the name. Plantin’ apple
trees is my game. This here’s a darn big
country, and I reckon folks are gonna
need a heap of apples.”
No matter what we said, we couldn’t
convince the bearded guy with the pot
on his head that he wasn’t Johnny
Appleseed. He read us a story about
Johnny Appleseed and told us lots of stuff
about apples. “Did you know that folks have been
eatin’ apples for thousands of years?”
Johnny Appleseed told us.
“They should chew faster,” I said,
and everybody laughed.
Then Johnny Appleseed took us outside
and helped us plant a real apple tree near
the playground. Before we went back into
school, we had apples for snack.
I can understand why he planted all
those apple trees. I can understand why
he was dressed funny. But what I don’t
understand is why he wore a pot on his
head. That Johnny Applesauce guy was
weird.
When we got back to class, I told Miss
Daisy all about what happened during
library period.
“Do you still think books are boring,
A.J.?” she asked me.
“Yes,” I said.
Chapter Seven
One Small Step for Man
By this time, we weren’t sure if Johnny
Appleseed and George Washington had
been to our school, or if it was just Mrs.
Roopy dressed up in funny costumes. But
we were sure of one thing.
Mrs. Roopy is loopy!
“We have to have proof,” Michael said.
“My father is a policeman, and he said
that if you want to be sure of something,
you have to have proof. He always says
the proof is in the pudding.”
“What does pudding have to do with
it?” I asked.
“Beats me,” said Michael.
“Your dad is weird,” I said.
“How are we going to prove that Mrs.
Roopy is dressing up in funny costumes?”
Ryan asked.
“We’ll get her fingerprints!” Michael
said, all excited. “That’s what my dad
does. Everybody in the whole world has
different fingerprints. If we get Johnny
Appleseed’s fingerprints and then we getMrs. Roopy’s fingerprints, I can have my
dad test them. If they are the same fingerprints, then that will be proof that Mrs.
Roopy was just pretending to be Johnny
Appleseed!”
Me and Ryan agreed that Michael was
a genius. The next time we had library,
we brought a juice box with us, so we
could get Mrs. Roopy’s fingerprints.
But when we came into the library, all
the lights were out and the shades were
down. It was really dark. At first we
thought the library was closed. Then we
heard a noise. It came from the top of the
tree house. We all looked up.
Somebody was coming down the
ladder. Whoever it was
had on a spacesuit and was
moving in slow motion.
Some music began playing
over the loudspeaker. “The
Eagle . . . has landed,” the
astronaut said. Finally the
astronaut reached the bottom
rung of the ladder. It was hard
to see a face through the space
helmet.
“It’s got to be Mrs. Roopy!”
Andrea said.
“I’m not Mrs. Roopy,” the astronaut said. “My name is Neil
Armstrong. It is 1969. I am about to
become the first human being to set foot
on the moon.”
Slowly Neil Armstrong put one foot on
the floor of the library.
“That’s one small step for man, one
giant leap for mankind,” he said.
We tried to convince Neil Armstrong
that he was really Mrs. Roopy dressed in a
spacesuit, but he kept saying he had
never heard of anyone named Roopy. Neil
Armstrong spent the rest of the period
showing us books about the moon and
the sun and the stars and outer space. It
was almost not boring, but not quite.
“Would you like some juice, Mr.
Armstrong?” Michael asked, holding out
the juice box. “No thank you,” Neil Armstrong said.
“I’ve got to be getting back to Earth now.
And I believe you have to go back to Miss
Daisy’s class.”
Then he climbed up the ladder and
into the tree house. Michael was disappointed that he didn’t get Neil Armstrong’s fingerprints.
When we got back to class, I told Miss
Daisy all about Neil Armstrong stepping
on the surface of the moon for the first
time.
“Wow, that sounds exciting!” Miss
Daisy said. “Do you still think books are
boring, A.J.?”
“Yes,” I said.
Chapter Eight
Nursery Rhyme Week
The only way to prove that Mrs. Roopy
was dressing up in silly costumes and
pretending to be other people would be
to get her fingerprints. Me and Ryan and
Michael were determined to get them the
next time we had library.
“When do we have library this week?”
we asked Miss Daisy.
“Oh, there is no library this week,” she
said. “The whole school is celebrating
Nursery Rhyme Week in our classrooms.”
“Oh man!” I said. “We wanted to go to
the library.”
“Yeah,” agreed Michael and Ryan.
Miss Daisy looked all surprised. She put
her hand on my forehead the way my
mom does when she thinks I have a fever.
“Are you sick, A.J.?” Miss Daisy said.
“There must be something wrong with
you if you want to go to the library.
Didn’t you say all books are boring?”
“They are,” I said. “I just want
proof that Mrs. Roopy was pretending to
be George Washington, Johnny Appleseed,
and Neil Armstrong. We have to
get her fingerprints.”
“Oh, don’t be silly,” Miss Daisy said.
“Mrs. Roopy is a perfectly normal lady.”
Miss Daisy took out a big fat Mother
Goose book. She opened it and was about
to start reading when this weird-looking
girl skipped into the classroom. She was
all dressed up in a puffy dress and she
was holding a big cane.
“It’s Mrs. Roopy!” we all shouted.
“I’m not Mrs. Roopy,” the girl said. “My
name is Little Bo Peep. I seem to have lost
my sheep. Do you know where I can find
them?” “Nope,” everybody said.
“Maybe they’re in the dungeon on thethird floor,” I said.
Michael tried to get her fingerprints,
but Little Bo Peep went skipping out of
the classroom before he could get a juice
box.
“That was weird,” Emily said.
“What kind of a name is Peep, anyway?” I asked.
Miss Daisy read us some nursery
rhymes from the Mother Goose book.
What kind of a name is Goose, anyway?
After a while, this other girl came running into our classroom. She was holding
a bucket in her hand.
“It’s Mrs. Roopy again!” we all shouted.
“Who are you now, Mrs. Roopy?” Emily
asked.
“I’m not Mrs. Roopy,” the girl said. “My
name is Jill. I ran up a hill with my friend
Jack to fetch a pail of water. But Jack fell
down and broke his crown. I went running after him, but now I have no idea
where he is. Have you seen him?” “Nope,” everybody said.
“Try the dungeon on the third floor,” I
said.
“You must be thirsty from all that running,” Michael said. “Have some juice.”
“No time for that,” Jill said. “I’ve got to
find Jack.” And then she ran out of the
classroom.
After lunch we were at recess out in
the playground when we noticed somebody sitting at the edge of the grass
under a tree. We all ran over to investigate. It was Mrs. Roopy, of course, dressed
up in another silly costume.
“Are you Little Bo Peep again?” Emily
asked.
“Heavens, no!” said Mrs. Roopy. “My
name is Little Miss Muffet. It’s a lovely
day, so I thought I’d just sit on this tuffet
and eat some curds and whey.”
“What’s a tuffet?” I asked, trying to
peek under Miss Muffet.
“What’s a curd?” asked Ryan.
“Yuck,” Michael said. “Curds sound disgusting!”
“I’m going to throw up,” Ryan said.
“That’s even worse than what they serve
in the cafeteria!”
“Wouldn’t you rather have a peanut
butter and jelly sandwich?” I asked.
Andrea and Emily came over while we
were talking with Little Miss Muffet.
Andrea started to tell us what curds and
whey and tuffets were, but she never gotto finish. This obviously fake spider came
down from the tree over Miss Muffet’s
head. She took one look at it and ran
back to school. Michael didn’t even have
the chance to get her fingerprints.
That lady is weird.
It went on like that for the rest of the
week. All these nursery rhyme characters kept popping up with no warning
all over the school.
“Who are you now?” we would ask.
“I’m an old woman in a shoe. I have so
many children I don’t know what to do.”
“Maybe you should put some of them
in the dungeon on the third floor,” I said.
In the next few days we were visited by
Wee Willie Winkie, Georgie Porgie,
Tommy Tucker, Simple Simon, Peter Peter
Pumpkin Eater, and some guy named
Jack who kept jumping over a candlestick
for no reason at all. I guess it was the
same Jack that girl Jill was looking for.
It was nonstop all week! I can’t say for
sure, but I’m pretty sure at least some of
those nursery-rhyme characters were
actually Mrs. Roopy.
Chapter Nine
Mrs. Roopy’s Problem
Something was wrong with Andrea. She
wasn’t raising her hand in class every
second. She wasn’t bragging to everybody
how much she knew about everything.
She wasn’t pestering me like she usually
did. It was like she was sick or something.
“What’s the matter, Andrea?” Emily
asked her during recess.
“I’m worried about Mrs. Roopy,”
Andrea said. “I’m afraid she might have a
serious personal problem.”
“You’re the one with the serious personal problem,” I said. “Mrs. Roopy is like
the coolest lady in the history of the
world. Would you rather have some
boring librarian who didn’t dress up incostumes or anything and all she did was
read boring books to us?”
“No, but my mother is a psychologist,”
Andrea said. “She told me that some sick
people have more than one personality.
Like one minute they think they are one
person, and a minute later they actually
think they are somebody completely

different. The whole time they actually
think they are all these people. I’m afraid
that Mrs. Roopy might have this problem.
She can’t tell the difference between the
real world and fantasy.”
“Wow,” Michael said. “That sounds
pretty serious.”
“We’ve got to help her!” Emily said.
“Yeah,” I said. “A librarian who doesn’t
know the difference between fiction and
nonfiction is in big trouble.”
“But what can we do?” Ryan asked.
We all put on our thinking caps. Well,
not really. There’s no such thing as a
thinking cap. But you know what I mean.
After a good long think, I came up with
a great plan.
Chapter Ten
The Evidence
There were five minutes left in recess.
Ryan, Michael, Andrea, Emily, and I
sneaked in from the playground through
the door to the library.
“Shhhhh!” I said as we tiptoed into the
library. “Follow me.”
Lucky for us, the library was empty.
Mrs. Roopy was probably eating lunch in
the teachers’ room.
On our hands and knees, we made our
way past the nonfiction books to Mrs.
Roopy’s office. The door was unlocked. I
opened it.
“We’re going to get caught,” Emily said. “We’re going to be kicked out of school
and thrown in jail for the rest of our
lives.”
“In here,” I said, ignoring Emily. “This is
where we’ll find the evidence.”
We were inside Mrs. Roopy’s office. I
wanted to turn the light on, but Michael
told me that when his father is doing a
secret investigation, he never turns the
lights on. We tried to see the best we
could with the light that came in through
the window.
“Do you see any evidence?” Michael
said.
“Not yet.”
It was just a bunch of boring stuff.
Pictures of Mrs. Roopy’s daughter. Papers.
Videos. Junk. No evidence at all.
“Let’s get out of here,” Emily said. “I’m
scared.”
“Not yet,” I said.
There was a closet by the corner. I
pulled the handle. It wasn’t locked.
And there, inside the closet, was all the
evidence we would ever need. George
Washington’s uniform. Little Bo Peep’s
dress. Johnny Appleseed’s overalls. Neil
Armstrong’s spacesuit. Every single costume Mrs. Roopy had been wearing was
hanging right there in the closet.
“This is the proof!” Michael said. “All
those people were just Mrs. Roopy dressedup in costumes.”
“I told you so,” said
Andrea.
“You did not!” I said.
“Did too!” she said.
“Oh, you think you
know everything!” I
said. “Well, you’re not
so smart!”
That’s when the
light flicked on. It was
Mrs. Roopy, standing
in the doorway looking at us.
“What’s the meaning of this?” she asked.

She had her hands on her hips, so we
knew she was mad. For some reason,
grown-ups always put their hands on
their hips when they are mad.
“I had nothing to do with it!” Andrea
said. “It was all A.J.’s idea!”
Everybody was looking at me. I had to
think fast. I didn’t want to spend the rest
of my life in jail.
I grabbed George Washington’s uniform out of the closet.
“What’s the meaning of . . . this?” I said,
holding up the costume. “You told us you
were home sick in bed and George
Washington was here instead of you.
How do you explain the fact that GeorgeWashington’s uniform is in your closet?
Huh?”
We all turned to look at Mrs. Roopy.
She just stood there for a moment and
then . . . she broke down crying. She was
sobbing and big tears were running down
her face. It was so sad that we all gathered around her and gave her a hug.
Emily was crying too.
“This is horrible!” Mrs. Roopy said,
wiping her eyes with a tissue.
“You’ll be okay, Mrs. Roopy,” Andrea
said. “We’ll get you some help.”
“No, it’s horrible!” Mrs. Roopy cried.
“George Washington must have left his
uniform in my closet when he was here.

Do you know what this means?”
“What?”
“It means George Washington is running around somewhere with no clothes
on!”
Chapter Eleven
Just Admit It!
It was no use. Even after we proved to
Mrs. Roopy that she was dressing up as
all these characters, she still wouldn’t
admit it.
“Mrs. Roopy is in denial,” Andrea said
when we got back to the classroom. “I’ll
bet you don’t know what that means, A.J.”

“Sure I know what ‘denial’ means,” I
said. “It’s that river in Africa.”
“Not the Nile, dumbhead! Denial! It
means she can’t admit to herself that she
has a problem.”
“So what are we supposed to do now?”
Michael asked.
“There’s only one thing we can do,”
Andrea said. “We’ve got to tell Mr. Klutz.”
Mr. Klutz is the principal, which means
he is like the king of the school. One time
I got into trouble and was sent to Mr.
Klutz’s office. When I got there, he didn’t
punish me. He gave me a candy bar. Mr.
Klutz is nuts!
We told Miss Daisy that we had to speak
with Mr. Klutz and that it was a matter oflife and death. She called the office and in
a few minutes Mr. Klutz arrived.
Mr. Klutz has no hair at all. We told
him all about the crazy things Mrs.
Roopy had been doing and how Andrea’s
mother is a psychologist and she thinks
Mrs. Roopy might have a big problem.
“We’re really worried about her,” Emily
said.
“Hmmm, this sounds pretty serious,” Mr.
Klutz said. “Maybe
we’d better go
have a little chat
with Mrs. Roopy.”
Mr. Klutz led us
down the hall to
the library. Whenwe got there, Mrs. Roopy was lying on the
floor under the tree house. She was holding her head like it had been hit. Not only
that, but Mrs. Roopy was really fat. It
looked like she had gained about a million hundred pounds!
“What happened, Mrs. Roopy?” Michael
asked. “Are you okay?” “Mrs. Roopy? Who’s that?” Mrs. Roopy
said. “My name is Humpty Dumpty. I was
sitting on that wall up there, and I had a
great fall.”
“Don’t tell me,” Andrea said. “All the
king’s horses and all the king’s men
couldn’t put you back together again.
Right?”
“How did you know?” Mrs. Roopy asked.
“You’re not Humpty Dumpty!” Andrea
said. “You’re Mrs. Roopy, our librarian!
Just admit it!”
“It doesn’t matter who it is,” Mr. Klutz
said. “There has been an injury. I need to
write a report and give it to the Board of
Education.”
“You can give it to me,” I told Mr. Klutz.

“I’m bored of education.”
Everybody laughed even though I
didn’t say anything funny. Mr. Klutz said
he had to go call a doctor for Humpty
Dumpty. Mrs. Roopy got up off the floor
and dusted herself off.
“Wait a minute,” I said. “I have a question.”
“Yes, A.J.?” asked Mrs. Roopy.
“Your name is Humpty Dumpty, right?”
“Right.”
“What I want to know is, why did your
parents name you Humpty? I mean, if
their last name was already Dumpty, they
could have named you John or Jim or Joe
or something normal. But they had to goand name you Humpty?”
“Well, actually, Humpty is just my nickname,” Mrs. Roopy said. “My real name is
Lumpy.”
“Lumpy Dumpty?” I said.
“Yes,” said Mrs. Roopy. “So you can see
why I’d rather be called Humpty.”
Andrea was getting all angry now. Mrs.
Roopy was simply not going to admit she
wasn’t Humpty Dumpty.
“Nursery Rhyme Week is over, Mrs.
Roopy!” Andrea said. “You can be yourself. You can stop pretending to be other
people.”
“Don’t you like nursery rhymes?” asked
Mrs. Roopy.

“Sure I do,” Andrea said. “But enough is
enough!”
“I hate nursery rhymes!” I said. “Nursery
rhymes are dumb. I’m sick of nursery
rhymes. Nursery rhymes are boring.”
Humpty, I mean, Mrs. Roopy, looked
hurt.
“Everything is boring to you, A.J.,” she
said sadly. “I’ve tried so hard not to bore
you. Please. Tell me. What is not boring
to you?”
I put on my thinking cap (well, not
really) and tried real hard to think of
something that wasn’t boring.
“Trick bikes,” I said. “Trick bikes aren’t
boring.
Chapter Twelve
The Proof
”It was the middle of our afternoon snack
time. I traded my pretzel sticks with
Ryan for his cup of chocolate pudding.
Suddenly I heard somebody yelling
down the hallway.
“Watch out! Coming through! Out of
the way!”
“I wonder what that could be,” said
Miss Daisy.
The yelling got louder. Everybody in
the class turned around just in time to
see somebody ride into our classroom on
a trick bike.
It was Mrs. Roopy! She was wearing
sunglasses, knee pads, elbow pads, and a
floppy black T-shirt that said “Bikers 4
Books.” She had combed her hair to make
it stick up all spiky.
“Hey, dudes!” she said as she skidded
to a stop right in front of my desk. “I just
landed an awesomely tweaked tailwhip
with a Superman seat grab to a toothpick
grind. You should have seen it! It was
really sick!” Everybody put down their snacks and
gathered around my desk to look at Mrs.
Roopy’s cool bike.
“I didn’t know you knew so much
about trick biking, Mrs. Roopy,” I said.
“I’m not Mrs. Roopy,” Mrs. Roopy said.

“I’m a professional trick biker!”
“You are not!” we all hollered. “You’re
Mrs. Roopy, the librarian!”
“Am not!”
“Are too!”
“It certainly looks like a trick biker to
me,” said Miss Daisy.
That’s when I came up with the most
genius idea in the history of the world.
Mrs. Roopy’s tattoo! I remembered that
she had a picture of a heart on her belly
button!
“You’re Mrs. Roopy,” I said, grabbing the
bottom of her T-shirt, “and I can prove it!”
“Oh, stop that!” Mrs. Roopy giggled.
“I’m ticklish!”When I yanked at her shirt, three books
fell out. One of them hit my snack on my
desk. The cup of chocolate pudding went
flying. It splashed all over Mrs. Roopy’s
tummy. It almost covered up the tattoo of
a heart, but we could still see it.
“It’s Mrs. Roopy!” Michael shouted.
“The proof is in the pudding!”
“Hey!” Ryan shouted. “Check out these
books!” Ryan picked up the books that had
dropped on the floor. They were books
about trick biking! One of the books
showed how to do tricks, and the other
two were about famous trick bikers. Cool!
“I didn’t know they made books about
trick biking,” Ryan said.
“So that’s how you know so much
about trick biking, Mrs. Roopy!” I said.
“I don’t know what you’re talking
about,” Mrs. Roopy said. “I’m a professional trick biker.”
“Can I check these books out of thelibrary?” asked Michael.
“No, I get them first,” Ryan said.
“Hey, I was the one who found them,” I
said.
Miss Daisy grabbed all the books.
“Gee, I don’t know, A.J.,” she said. “You
said that reading was boring, so you probably wouldn’t want to read these books.”
“Yes I would!” I shouted. “Pleeeeease?”
“Well, okay,” Miss Daisy said as she
handed each of us one of the trick bike
books. “But if you don’t bring these back
on time, Mrs. Roopy is going to lock you
in the dungeon on the third floor.”
We all looked at Mrs. Roopy.
“Later, dudes!” she said. And with that,

Mrs. Roopy went pedaling out into the
hallway.
I feel sorry for Mrs. Roopy. She is the
loopiest librarian I’ve ever met. I think
she’s got a big problem. We’re going to do
all we can to help her. But it won’t be easy.


