My Weird School
Book number four
Ms Hannah Is Bananas
Chapter One
I Hate Andrea Young
“Miss Daisy! A.J. hit me!”
“I did not,” I said.
“He did too! He bumped his elbow
against my elbow!”
Andrea Young is so annoying. I barely
touched her stupid elbow. She was moaning and holding her arm like an elephant
stepped on it.
I wish an elephant would step on her
head. Andrea has been bothering me
since we were little kids. And that’s a long
time, because now we’re in second grade.
“I saw A.J. do it, Miss Daisy,” said Emily.
She is Andrea’s friend and is just as
annoying. But in a different way.
“Am I going to have to send anyone to
Mr. Klutz’s office?” Miss Daisy asked.
Mr. Klutz is the principal, and that
means he is like the king of the school.
“No,” me and Andrea said.
“Good, because it’s time for us to go to
art class. I don’t want you to miss it. Our
art teacher, Ms. Hannah, is really nice,
and I’m sure she has some fun activities
planned for you.”
“Art?” I said. “I hate art.”
“Oh, you hate everything, A.J.,” said
Andrea, who thinks she knows everything.
It just so happens that I do not hate
everything. I don’t hate football. I don’t
hate skateboarding. I don’t hate trick
biking. I don’t hate monster movies.
Especially when the monsters crush cars
and stuff. But I do hate school, and I especially hate Andrea.
“I love art,” Andrea announced, like
anybody really cared. She took out a big
art box she had brought from home. It
had crayons and colored pencils and
other stuff in it. “When I grow up, I want
to be an artist. My mom thinks I’m really
creative. I like to create things.”
“She should create an empty space
where she is right now,” I whispered to
my friend Ryan, who sits in the row next
to me.
“Hahahaha!” Ryan laughed, but Miss
Daisy made a mean face at him and he
shut up.
“Let’s go, second graders!” she said.
“Single file to the art room. Ms. Hannah is
waiting for us.”
Drawing pictures is for babies, if you
ask me. And art is stupid.

Chapter Two
Finger Painting with Ms. Hannah
Emily was the door holder. My friend
Michael who never ties his shoes was the
line leader. The art room was all the way
on the other side of the school. We had to
walk about a million hundred miles to
get there. Michael told Miss Daisy it was
like walking across the Grand Canyon, so
she let us take drinks from the water
fountain outside the art room.
That’s where Ms. Hannah was standing. She was the funniest-looking lady I
ever saw. She was wearing a dress that
looked like it was made from a bunch of
different-colored washcloths that were
sewed together. On her hands were these
big mittens that my mom uses when she
has to take hot dishes out of the oven.
Ms. Hannah looked weird.
“Good morning, second graders,” she
said as we filed into the art room. “Do
you like my new dress? It’s made from
used pot holders that I bought on eBay. I
stitched them together.”
Ms. Hannah spun around so we could
get the full effect of her new dress.
“It’s beautiful!” Andrea said. She is
always complimenting (that’s a big word!)
grown-ups on everything. Andrea was
born old. Personally I thought it was the
stupidest-looking dress in the history of
the world. I went to sit with my friends
Michael and Ryan, but Miss Daisy
stopped us.
She told Ms. Hannah that certain
people should not sit next to other certain people. I knew what that meant.
“Boy-girl-boy-girl,” Miss Daisy said,
pointing to where we should sit. I had to
sit at a table between Andrea and her crybaby friend Emily.
Miss Daisy gave each of us a name tag
to wear so Ms. Hannah would know our
names. Then she told Ms. Hannah she
would be in the teachers’ lounge in case
there was any trouble.
The teachers’ lounge is where the
teachers go when they don’t have to
teach.
I’ve never been in there. No kid has
ever been in there in the history of the
world, because kids aren’t allowed inside.
The teachers’ lounge is like a secret clubhouse for teachers only.
My friend Billy
from around
the corner
who was in
second grade
last year told me that
they have big parties in the
teachers’ lounge all day long. He said the
teachers dance around and play Pin the
Tail on the Donkey and eat cake and
take target practice with BB guns. Then
they try and think up new punishments
to give us kids when we misbehave.
That sounds cool. Maybe when I grow
up, I’ll be a teacher so I can hang out in
the teachers’ lounge all day and have fun.
After we sat at our tables, Ms. Hannah
took off her pot-holder mitts and picked
up a piece of black paper.
“Can anyone tell me what this is?” she
asked.
Any dumbhead knows that. I raised my
hand, and she called on me. “It’s a piece
of black paper,” I said. “Duh!”
“It could be a piece of black paper, A.J.,”
Ms. Hannah said. “But maybe it’s a black
cat in a coal mine. Maybe it’s a crow
flying in the middle of the night.”
It was a trick question! I hate trick
questions! My ears felt like they were on
fire. I didn’t look at anybody, but I knew
everybody was looking at me and laughing to themselves.
It wasn’t fair! That stupid thing was a
plain old piece of black paper, and everybody knew it.
“It looks like a piece of black paper to
me,” my friend Ryan said. Whew! I knew
I could count on Ryan. I turned around
and gave him the thumbs-up sign.
“I want you to open your imaginations,
second graders,” Ms. Hannah said. “Art is
everything and everywhere! It’s all
around us! We are all artists. A dentist is
an artist. Your mouth is your dentist’s
canvas. A man fixing a roof is an artist.
You can be an artist too.”
Not me, I thought to myself. Art is
stupid.
Ms. Hannah put a big sheet of newspaper in front of each of us to cover the
table. She took a bunch of old T-shirts
out of the closet and gave one to everybody to wear so we wouldn’t get paint all
over ourselves. Then she put paint in the
middle of all the tables and gave each of
us a piece of white paper.
“Today we are going to finger paint,”
she said.
“I’m not painting my fingers,” I said.
Some of the kids laughed, even though I
didn’t say anything funny.
“You silly dumbhead,” Andrea said.
“Finger painting is when you use your
fingers to paint pictures.”
I knew that. Andrea thinks she knows
everything.
“What should we paint?” Emily asked
Ms. Hannah.
“Anything you like! Express your creativity. Paint what you love.”
“I love butterflies,” Andrea said. “I’m
going to finger paint a picture of a happy
family of butterflies.”
“I’m going to finger paint a picture of a
tree in a forest where your butterflies can
live,” said Emily.
“I’m going to finger paint a picture of a
tree falling in a forest and crushing a
family of happy butterflies until they are
dead,” I said.
“That’s mean!” Emily said. She looked
like she was going to cry, like she does at
every stupid little thing.
“Hey, I’m just expressing myself,” I said.
I turned around and saw that Ryan
was finger painting an airplane. Michael
was finger painting a house. Everybody was
hard at work finger painting.
The finger paint looked yucky to me. I
didn’t really want to get it all over my
hands. It was disgusting. I just sat there
watching everybody finger paint. My
piece of paper was the only one that was
perfectly white.
“Why aren’t you finger painting, A.J.?”
Emily whispered to me.
“Mind your own business, dumbhead.”
“Ms. Hannah!” Andrea called out. “A.J.
isn’t finger painting.”
Andrea is a big tattletale. She stuck out
her tongue at me as Ms. Hannah came
over to our table.
“A.J., you haven’t finger painted a
thing,” Ms. Hannah said.
I didn’t know what to do. I didn’t know
what to say. I had to think fast. “I did too
finger paint something,” I said. “This is a
picture of a white polar bear. He’s playing
in the snow. White snow. And he’s eating
. . . vanilla ice cream!”
All the kids were looking at me. Ms.
Hannah was looking at me. I was afraid
she was going to yell or go get Miss Daisy
from the teachers’ lounge to take me to
the principal’s office.
“Very nice finger painting, A.J!” Ms.
Hannah said with a big smile on her face.
“That’s using your creativity!”
Hahaha! I stuck my tongue out at
Andrea. She folded her arms across her
front all mad-like.
It was great. It was not only great. It
was the greatest moment in the history of
the world. This was the next best thing to
an elephant stepping on Andrea’s head.
Pretty soon it was time to clean up. Ms.
Hannah taught us a song about cleaning
up. The words were, “Clean up, clean up,
everybody everywhere. Clean up, clean
up, everybody do their share.”
It was a pretty dumb song, and me
and Michael and Ryan changed the
words to “Clean up, clean up, even in
your underwear.”
Any time anybody says a word that
rhymes with “air,” you should always
change it to “underwear.” Everybody will
laugh. Believe me, this works every time.
Ms. Hannah peeled the sheets of painty
newspaper off our desks and stuck them
on a ball that was sitting on the win-
dowsill. The ball was about the size of a
beach ball.
“What are you doing, Ms. Hannah?”
Michael asked.
“I’m making a newspaper ball,” she
said.
“Why?” we all asked.
“Old newspapers with
paint all over them can
be art. This is my art.
Like I said, art is everywhere. And this way,
nothing goes to
waste. I don’t
like waste. If
you look
around, you’ll see that I don’t even have
a garbage can in here.”
We looked around. It was true. There
was no garbage can in the art room. Ms.
Hannah didn’t need a garbage can,
because she never threw anything away.
“That reminds me,” Ms. Hannah said. “For
our next class, I would like you all to
bring in things from home that your parents were planning to throw away.”
“What for?”
“So we can make them into art.”
I was still looking around for a garbage
can. She had to have a garbage can somewhere. Everybody needs a garbage can.
“It’s a shame when people throw things
away,” Ms. Hannah said. “Everything in
the world is beautiful. Everything can be
used to make some kind of art.”
“Well, I just blew my nose,” I said, holding out a tissue. “Does that make my
boogers artistic?” Everybody laughed
even though I didn’t say anything funny.
Ms. Hannah took my tissue and stuck it
to her big newspaper ball.
It was disgusting.

Chapter Three
Weird People
In the lunchroom I got to sit next to Ryan
and Michael. I gave my apple to Ryan,
and he gave me his yogurt with sprinkles
in it.
“Ms. Hannah is weird,” I said.
“Artists are always weird,” Ryan said.
“My mom has a friend who’s an artist,
and she’s really weird. My mom says
that’s because artists are creative.”
“Your mom is weird,” Michael said.
“Lots of people are weird,” I told them.
“That doesn’t make them creative. Some
people are just weird, and they’re not creative at all. And some people are creative,
and they’re not at all weird.”
“You’re weird, A.J.,” Ryan said.
“Anybody who wears a dress made of
pot holders is weird,” Michael said.
“Art teachers are supposed to dress
funny,” I said.
“If my dad dressed like that, he’d be
fired,” Ryan said.
“Your dad is a businessman,” Michael
told Ryan. “He has to wear a tie around
his neck every day. It doesn’t do anything. It’s just a piece of cloth that hangs
around his neck. If you ask me, that’s
pretty weird.”
“Yeah,” I said, “which is weirder, wearing a dress made out of pot holders, or
wearing a piece of cloth around your
neck for no reason at all?”
“They’re both weird,” Ryan said.
“All grown-ups are weird, especially art
teachers,” said Michael.
“Ms. Hannah is weird, even for an art
teacher,” I said. I noticed that Andrea and
Emily at the next table were listening to
us. I knew they were listening because
they kept shaking their heads and rolling
their eyes and snickering at us.
“Maybe Ms. Hannah isn’t really an art
teacher at all,” I said, just loud enough so
the girls would hear it. “Did you ever
think about that? Maybe she’s just pretending to be an art teacher.”
“Yeah!” Michael said. “Maybe Ms. Hannah is a thief, and she’s trying to steal all
our garbage and take over the world.
Stuff like that happens in comic books all
the time.”
“Maybe our real art teacher was kidnapped, and she’s tied up to a chair in the
teachers’ lounge,” Ryan said.
“And the teachers are shooting BB guns
at her,” I added.
“We’ve got to save her!” Emily suddenly said. There were tears running
down her cheeks. Then she got up and
went running out of the room.
Me and Ryan and Michael laughed our
heads off. That Emily is such a crybaby.
“You boys are weird,” Andrea said.


Chapter Four
What a Mess!
The next time we had art class, the newspaper ball that Ms. Hannah had been
making was huge! It was about as high as
a desk. Everybody wanted to touch it.
Everyone except for me, that is. I remembered that somewhere inside that ball
was my booger.
The art room was filled with all kinds
of junk kids brought in from home.
There were old musical instruments,
broken toys, soda cans, plastic wrap, and
all kinds of garbage. You should have
seen it! Some kid brought in a tennis racquet with no strings.
“What a mess!” Emily said.
“If my bedroom looked like this, my
mom would go crazy,” Michael said. “You
should throw half this stuff in the garbage, Ms. Hannah.”
“Oh dear, no,” she said. “I don’t like to
throw things away. In fact, at home the
garbagemen bring me garbage so I can
use it in my art. When I have a day off, I
go to junkyards looking for treasures.”
Ms. Hannah is bananas!
She had some sticky glue that sticks to
everything. She told us to make a sculpture out of the junk kids brought in from
home.
“Express yourself!” Ms. Hannah said.
“Show your creativity! Remember, art is
everywhere. Art is light. Art is air. Even
things that are invisible can be art.”
Michael started making a robot out of
toilet paper tubes. Emily made a doll out
of buttons.
I didn’t know what to make. I think I’m
just not very artistic. I didn’t feel like
gluing a bunch of junk together. Ms.
Hannah walked around looking at everyone’s sculptures and telling them how
wonderful they were. I hoped Ms. Hannah wouldn’t come over to me.
“A.J. isn’t making a sculpture,” Andrea
said, and she stuck her tongue out at me.
I hate her.
“Why aren’t you making anything,
A.J.?”
I didn’t know what to do. I didn’t know
what to say. I had to think fast. “I did
make a sculpture,” I said. “This is an invisible sculpture. I call it ‘The Invisible
Sculpture.’”
“Very clever, A.J.!” Ms. Hannah said.
“That’s using your creativity!”
I stuck out my tongue at Andrea.
“I have an announcement, second
grade,” Ms. Hannah said after clean-up
time. “Mr. Klutz has agreed to sponsor a
big art contest. There will be a prize for
the winner in each grade.”
“What’s the prize?” Ryan asked.
“A gift certificate for a hundred dollars
to an art supply store.”
Everybody went “ooh” and “wow.” It
didn’t seem like a great prize to me. I
don’t like art. What would I do with a
bunch of art supplies?
Ms. Hannah said we had to create our
artwork at home and bring it in two weeks
later if we wanted to be in the contest.
“You can make anything you like,” Ms.
Hannah said, “and use whatever materials you want. Freely express yourselves!
Creativity is the most important thing.”
“Can we just draw pictures?” Michael
asked.
“Of course!” said Ms. Hannah.
“I hope I win,” I heard Andrea whisper
to Emily. “I’m going to make a sculpture
with butterflies.”
I hate her. I wonder if there are poisonous butterflies that bite people.
“So who thinks they might enter the
contest?” asked Ms. Hannah. Everybody
raised their hands except for me.
“What about you, A.J.?”
I didn’t say anything. But I’ll tell you
what I was thinking: I hate art! Art is
stupid!

Chapter Five
The Secret of the Teachers’ Lounge
We were out in the playground during
recess. Me and Ryan and Michael all
agreed that Ms. Hannah was weird. I
mean, saving all that garbage is good for
the environment and all, but it’s kind of
weird, too. She doesn’t have enough
garbage of her own. She has to go get
other people’s garbage.
“She’s not an art teacher,” I said. “She’s
a garbage collector.”
“I still say our real art teacher was kidnapped,” Ryan said. “She’s probably tied
up to a chair in the teachers’ lounge.”
The teachers’ lounge is on the second
floor of our school. Ryan said he thought
it was in a room over the playground. We
looked up at the windows and found the
one that was probably the teachers’
lounge.
“Our real art teacher could be in there
right now,” Ryan said, “tied up to a chair
and being tortured!”
“Too bad we’re too short to see inside,”
Michael said.
That’s when I came up with the most
genius idea in the history of the world.
I told Ryan and Michael that we might
be able to see inside the window to the
teachers’ lounge if we stood on top of each
other.
Michael got down on his hands and
knees below the window. Ryan climbed
up on top of him and hunched down. I
climbed up on top of Ryan and stood on
his shoulders.
“Can you see anything, A.J.?” Michael
grunted.
“Not yet.”
I could almost see into the window. I
grabbed hold of the ledge on the window
to pull myself up better.
“Hurry up!” Michael said. “My back is
going to break!”
That’s when I saw them. The teachers!
I saw Miss Daisy and Mrs. Roopy and a
few of the other teachers. I was looking
right into the teachers’ top-secret lounge!
“I see them!” I shouted.
“What are they doing?” Ryan asked, all
excited.
“Not much,” I said.
“Is anybody tied up to a chair?” Michael
asked.
“No.”
“Are they dancing around with each
other?” Ryan asked.
“No.”
“Are they playing Pin the Tail on the
Donkey?” Michael asked.
“No,” I said. “They’re just sitting there . . .
eating lunch.”
“That’s it ?” Ryan said.
“Wait!” I told them. “Mrs. Roopy is getting something out of the closet!”
“Is it a BB gun?” Michael asked.
“No, it’s a paper bag,” I said. “It must be
her lunch.”
“This is boring,” Ryan said.
“One more minute,” I said.
“My back is breaking!” Michael
hollered.
I don’t know exactly what happened
next, but all I knew was that Ryan and
Michael weren’t holding me up anymore.
Nothing was holding me up anymore.
I was holding on to the ledge of the
windowsill with my elbows. If I let go, I
would fall. I was afraid my head would
bang on the windowsill.
“Help! Help!” I shouted.
I was hanging there for about a million
hundred minutes until some of the
teachers inside the teachers’ lounge
noticed me. They rushed over and
opened the window.
“A.J., what are you doing out here?”
Miss Daisy said as she and the other
teachers pulled me inside.
“Uh, I was just hanging around,” I told
them.

Chapter Six
The Museum of Hanging Garbage
For a few days, I was the star of the
school. No kid had ever been inside the
teachers’ lounge. I was probably the first
one in the history of the world.
Everybody wanted to know about the
incredible things I saw in the teachers’
lounge. Kids were even offering me
candy to tell them.
I didn’t want to tell them the teachers’
lounge was just a boring old room where
the teachers sat around eating lunch. I
didn’t want to lie, either. So I just told
them that the teachers blindfolded me
and said they would torture me if I ever
revealed what went on in the teachers’
lounge. It was cool.
Our next art class wasn’t an art class at
all. Ms. Hannah took us on a field trip to
a museum.
I hate museums. Museums are boring.
“Why don’t we ever take a field trip to
a cool place like a skateboard park?” I
asked Ryan on the bus ride over to the
museum.
“What’s so great about skateboard
parks?” Andrea asked from the seat in
front of me.
“Well, for one thing, you’re not there,” I
said. Ryan laughed.
Andrea made a mean face at me. “I like
museums,” she said. “My mom takes me
to museums all the time.”
“Too bad she doesn’t leave you there,”
I said.
Ryan laughed.
We walked around the museum for
about a million hundred hours. Ms.
Hannah was all excited. She just about
ran from room to room telling us about
all the wonderful art.
It was horrible and boring, and I was
hungry and my legs were tired. I looked
for a place to sit down.
There were some big boxes of soup
cans in the corner, and I went to take a
rest on them. But as soon as I sat down,
all these loud bells started ringing and
guards came running over. One of them
was blowing a whistle, and he started
yelling at me.
“Get up!” he
shouted. “You
can’t sit there!”
“Okay, okay!” I said,
getting up fast. “I’ll sit someplace else.”
What’s the big deal? I wondered.
The guard looked like he was going
to arrest me or something. Luckily Ms.
Hannah ran over and rescued me. I asked
her what I did, and she told me that I had
sat on some art.
“That’s art?” I asked. “I thought it was
boxes of soup.”
“It’s modern art!” she said. “That is a
famous sculpture that is worth millions
of dollars.”
It looked like soup boxes to me. Ms.
Hannah told me to remember that art is
everywhere, so I should be careful what I
sat on. She put her arm around me and
kept it there for the rest of the time we
were in the museum.
We walked around and she kept pointing out the beautiful artwork all over the
place.
“Look at this!” she kept saying. “Isn’t it
marvelous?”
We stopped in front of a painting. It
was just a bunch of lines and squares and
box shapes. It was really stupid.
“Isn’t it wonderful?” Ms. Hannah said.
“It’s called ‘Broadway Boogie Woogie.’”
“My little sister could paint that with
her eyes closed,” I said.
The next room didn’t have any paintings on the walls at all. But all kinds of
junk was hanging from the ceiling.
“Can anybody tell me what these are?”
Ms. Hannah asked us.
“That must be the museum’s garbage,”
I told her. “When my family goes camping, we hang our garbage from a tree so
the bears and raccoons don’t get it.”
“They don’t have bears and raccoons
in museums, dumbhead,” Andrea said.
“Those things are called mobiles.”
“That’s right, Andrea!” Ms. Hannah
said, and Andrea stuck her tongue out at
me. I hate her. “They are also called
kinetic sculptures.”
“What does that mean?” Emily asked.
“It means it comes from Connecticut,” I
told her.
“No, kinetic means ‘movement,’” Ms.
Hannah said. “The sculptures can move.”
“Don’t tell me that ’s art,” I said, looking
at one of those Connecticut things.
“Not only is this art,” Ms. Hannah said,
“it’s a masterpiece!”
“Looks like hanging garbage to me,” I
said. This museum was the weirdest
museum in the history of museums. I
was bored and hungry, and I wanted to
sit down. Finally Ms. Hannah said we
could go outside in the garden and have
a snack.
“Before we leave the museum,” she
started, “does anybody have any questions?”
I raised my hand. “If all of the stuff in
here is art, how do they know what to
throw away as garbage?” I asked. “Do
they ever throw the art away by accident
and leave the garbage here? How do they
know which is which?”
Everybody laughed even though I
didn’t say anything funny. I never did
find out how they threw their garbage
away.

Chapter Seven
Performance Art
There’s a garden in the back of the
Museum of Hanging Garbage. We went
out there, and Ms. Hannah gave out pretzels and punch to all of us. She said we
could run around and burn off some
energy.
We were munching the pretzels when
Michael noticed a statue at the other end
of the garden. It was a statue of a guy. He
was dressed in a raincoat and he was
holding an umbrella. The cool thing was
that the statue guy was painted gold
from head to toe.
“Now that is cool,” I said.
A bunch of people were standing
around in a circle looking at the statue
guy.
“Hey, wait a minute!” Michael said. “I
just saw that statue guy move.”
“He did not,” I said.
“Did too,” said Michael.
I went over to the statue guy. There
was a hat on the ground in front of him,
and there was money in it. That was
weird. If it was a statue, why would anybody give it money?
The statue guy wasn’t moving at all. I
walked around him real slow. I said
“Boo!” to him. He didn’t move. I wanted
to touch him to see if he was a real
statue, but I was scared.
I looked in the statue guy’s eyes. They
sure looked real, but he wasn’t moving a
muscle.
“See, I told you,” I said to Michael. “It’s
just a stat—”
But just as I said it, the statue guy suddenly picked up his hand and put it on
my head!
I screamed and jumped about three
feet in the air! All the people who were
watching started to laugh even though
there wasn’t anything funny about it.
I hadn’t been so scared since I went to
this haunted mansion on Halloween and
all these zombies were jumping out from
behind the walls. When that statue guy
moved, I thought I was going to die.
Ms. Hannah came over and put her
arm around me.
“See, that’s art too, A.J.!” she said as she
put some money in the statue guy’s hat.
“This man has turned himself into a
work of art! It’s just like I always tell you.
Art is everywhere. This is called performance art!”
Performance art? Performance art? I
think maybe when I grow up, I will paint
myself gold and stand around doing
nothing but scaring kids all day. That performance art stuff is cool.

Chapter Eight
The Friendship Picture
When we got back to school, Ms. Hannah
took us to the art room. What a mess!
There was more junk than ever in
there. Her newspaper ball was bigger too.
It was almost as tall as me.
Ms. Hannah said she hoped the art we
saw in the museum had inspired us to
create art on our own. She passed out
paper and pencils and said that today we
were going to draw friendship pictures.
“What’s a friendship picture?” Emily
asked.
“A friendship picture is a picture that
two people draw together,” she said.
“That sounds like fun,” said Andrea.
“Can Emily and I work on a friendship
picture together? We’re best friends.”
“Can I draw a picture with A.J.?” asked
Ryan.
“No,” said Ms. Hannah. “I want Andrea
and A.J. to work on a friendship picture
together.”
Everybody laughed even though Ms.
Hannah didn’t say anything funny. That’s
because everybody knows that Andrea
and I hate each other.
“Do I have to work with him?” Andrea
asked.
“Do I have to work with her?” I asked.
“Yes,” said Ms. Hannah. “Andrea, you
love butterflies, right? A.J., you love
skateboards. Let’s see the two of you
draw a skateboarding butterfly.”
We got to work. Andrea drew the butterfly and the background. I drew a
helmet on the butterfly, a skateboard
under it, and a bunch of ramps and stuff.
Our friendship picture actually came
out pretty good. Ms. Hannah was so
impressed at how well me and Andrea
worked together that she went to get
Miss Daisy.
“Hey, this is pretty cool,” I said, holding
up our friendship picture.
“Wow,” agreed Andrea, taking the
friendship picture. “I’m going to take this
home so my mom can put it up on the
refrigerator.”
“I want to take it home,” I said, grabbing the friendship picture away from
Andrea. “My mom will want to put it up
on our refrigerator.”
“You hate art, A.J.,” Andrea said, grabbing the friendship picture back. “Why
should you get to take it home?”
“Because I want it, that’s why,” I said. I
grabbed the friendship picture back
from Andrea. Only this time Andrea
didn’t let go.
She pulled on one side of the friendship picture. I pulled on the other side of
the friendship picture. That’s when our
friendship picture ripped right down the
middle.
“You ruined our friendship picture!”
Andrea shouted.
“I did not! You did!”
“I hate you!”
“I hate you back!”
I heard Ms. Hannah and Miss Daisy
coming down the hall toward the art
room.
“Wait until you see how well A.J. and
Andrea are working together,” Ms.
Hannah said as they walked into the
room. “You won’t believe your eyes.”

Chapter Nine
Mr. Klutz and the Secret Drawer
“You two,” Miss Daisy said. “Go to Mr.
Klutz’s office. Now.”
“Oooooooooooooh!”
I thought Andrea was going to kill me
on the way to the principal’s office. She
was really mad. Andrea had never been
to Mr. Klutz’s office before. That’s
because she never does anything wrong.
“I can’t believe I’m in trouble,” Andrea
said. “It’s all your fault, A.J.”
“Relax,” I said. “I’ve been to the principal’s office plenty of times. Mr. Klutz is a
good guy.”
Mr. Klutz was sitting at his desk talking
on the phone when we arrived. He is not
only the principal of the school, but he
also has no hair at all.
Once he let everybody in our class
touch his head. It was cool.
“Are we going to be punished?” Andrea
asked when Mr. Klutz hung up the
phone. She was all nervous and talked in
a quiet voice.
“I don’t believe in punishing children,”
Mr. Klutz said. “I believe in rewarding
children for doing good things. Now tell
me, why can’t you two get along?”
“He says mean things to me,” Andrea
said.
“She thinks she knows everything,” I
said.
“He hates everything.”
“Not everything. Just you.”
Mr. Klutz leaned forward in his chair
and rubbed his forehead. Grown-ups
always rub their foreheads when they are
thinking. I guess it must help their brains
work better. When you get old, your
brain doesn’t work as good anymore so
you have to rub your forehead to get it
going again.
“What can we do to solve this problem?” Mr. Klutz asked.
“Kick A.J. out of school.”
“Kick Andrea out of school.”
“I’m not kicking anyone out of school,”
Mr. Klutz said. “The two of you are going
to have to live with each other.”
“In the same house?” I asked. “I
thought you said you don’t punish kids.”
Mr. Klutz laughed even though I didn’t
say anything funny. Then he took a key
and opened one of his desk drawers. The
drawer was filled all the way up to the
top with candy. Chocolates. Lollipops.
Caramels. He had like a whole candy shop
in his drawer. I decided right there that I
want to be a principal when I grow up.
“Would you like some of this?” Mr.
Klutz asked us.
Andrea and I nodded our heads and
licked our lips.
“Here’s the deal. If you two can go a
full day without fighting, I will give you
each a candy bar tomorrow.”
“How about two candy bars?” I suggested.
“One candy bar each,” Mr. Klutz said.
“That’s my final offer. Take it or leave it.”
I don’t like Andrea. She doesn’t like me
either. But we both like candy bars.
I would have to go one day without
fighting with Andrea. One day wasn’t so
long. I could handle one day.
“Okay,” Andrea and I said.
Then we all shook on it. Shook hands,
I mean. We didn’t just start shaking.
That would have been dumb.

Chapter Ten
The Big Stupid Art Contest
The next morning I was on my best
behavior. I was trying very hard to not
say anything mean to Andrea.
But it wasn’t easy, because she is so
annoying. When Andrea gave an apple to
Miss Daisy as a present, I wanted to say
something mean. But I didn’t.
When Andrea showed everybody the
A+ she got on the math quiz, I wanted to
say something mean. But I didn’t.
When Andrea told Miss Daisy how
pretty her hair looked, I wanted to say
something mean. But I didn’t.
Andrea wasn’t saying anything mean
to me either. We both wanted that candy
bar.
Miss Daisy was happy that Andrea and
I were being so nice to each other.
When it came time for lunch, she sat us
at the same table with Ryan and Michael
and Emily. I traded Emily my banana, and
she traded me her potato chips.
“Did you all bring in your stuff for the
art contest?” asked Emily. “Ms. Hannah is
going to judge the winner this afternoon.”
I had forgotten all about the stupid art
contest. Michael said he made a statue
out of toothpicks. Ryan said he made a
papier-mâché head. Emily made a collage. Andrea made a mobile with hanging
butterflies (of course!).
I was the only one who didn’t bring in
anything. I hate art. Art is stupid.
“Did you see the art room?” Andrea
asked. “When I brought my mobile in,
the place was just a big mess.”
“Of course it’s a big mess,” Ryan said.
“Have you ever seen Ms. Hannah throw
anything away?”
“She can’t throw anything away,”
Michael said. “She doesn’t have a garbage
can.”
“That’s exactly what I mean,” Andrea
said. “Ms. Hannah just gets more and
more stuff, and never throws anything
away. My mother is a psychologist. She
helps people with their problems. And
my mother says that people who can’t
throw anything away have a problem.”
I was going to tell Andrea that she was
the one who had a problem. But I didn’t.
I wanted that candy bar.
“You know, everything isn’t art,” Andrea
said. “Some things are garbage. Maybe
Ms. Hannah became an art teacher
because she couldn’t throw anything
away. She might be a sick, sick woman
who needs help.”
“I never thought of it that way,” Ryan
said.
“We’ve got to help her!” said Emily.
“What can we do?” asked Michael.
“I’ve got an idea!” said Emily. “Why
don’t we sneak into the art room during
recess and clean it up? When Ms. Hannah
sees how neat and clean everything is,
she will realize she has a problem.”
“That’s a great idea!” Andrea said.
It didn’t sound like such a great idea to
me. Cleaning things up was no fun at all.
I don’t like cleaning my room at home. I
sure didn’t want to clean up the art room.
But I didn’t want to get into an argument
with Andrea either. If we had a fight, I
wouldn’t get my candy bar.
After we finished lunch, the five of us
snuck down the hall to the art room.
Andrea was right. The place was a big
mess. That’s when I came up with the
greatest idea in the history of the world.
“You know what?” I said. “Instead of
cleaning this place, we should mess it up
even worse.”
“Why would you want to do that?”
Emily asked.
“If we really mess it up bad, Ms.
Hannah will be so shocked that she will
realize she has a problem.”
It sounded like a genius idea to me.
Cleaning isn’t fun at all, but messing
things up is lots of fun.
“I’m not sure that’s such a good idea,
A.J.,” Andrea said.
“Sure it’s a good idea,” I said.
“Trust me, A.J. It’s not a good idea.”
Andrea thinks she knows everything.
Well, she doesn’t know everything.
“I’m not cleaning this place up,” I said.
“I’d rather go outside for recess.”
“You promised you would help,”
Andrea said.
“I did not.”
“Did too.”
“I hate you, A.J.!”
That’s when Andrea did the dumbest
thing in the history of the world. She
pushed me.
If I knew she was going to do something dumb like that, I could have gotten
ready for it. But how was I to know she
was going to do something dumb like
push me?
My foot must have slipped or
something, because I fell backward.
Right behind me was Ms. Hannah’s
newspaper ball. When I fell backward, I
landed on top of the ball.
The ball rolled. I rolled on top of it.
“Watch out!” Emily screamed.
My foot hit Andrea’s butterfly mobile
that was hanging from the ceiling. The
butterfly mobile landed
on my head.
On the floor
behind the ball
were a bunch of
cans of
paint. I tried
to get out
of the way,
but I couldn’t. When I hit the ground, I hit
the paint first.
“You stupid dumbhead!” Andrea
shouted. “You crushed my butterflies!”
“You pushed me into them!”
“I did not! You fell on them on purpose!”
I got up off the floor. Paint and butterflies were all over me. Red. Yellow. Blue.
Green. It was cool.
“Hey, look!” I said. “Art is everywhere.”
Ryan and Michael laughed.
“How can you make jokes at a time like
this?” Andrea said. “You ruined my
mobile! Now I won’t win the contest!”
“You’re going to be in big trouble, A.J.,”
Emily said.
“Somebody’s coming,” Ryan said.
“Everybody shut up!”
That’s when the door opened. Ms.
Hannah and Mr. Klutz came in. I was
standing there with paint and Andrea’s
stupid butterflies hanging all over me.
“What’s the meaning of this?” Mr. Klutz
asked. I didn’t know what to do. I didn’t
know what to say. I had to think fast.
“It’s . . . performance art,” I said.
Everybody looked at me for like a million hundred seconds.
“Yeah,” Andrea finally said. “It’s friendship performance art. A.J. and I made it
together.”
Ms. Hannah walked around me and
looked me over. One of the butterflies
slid down my head and stopped at the
end of my nose.
“It’s Connecticut friendship performance art,” I said.
“I think it’s fabulous!” Ms. Hannah said.
“It is so very creative. I believe the winners
of the art contest are
Andrea and A.J.!”
Everybody cheered and
clapped. Mr. Klutz reached
into his jacket pocket and
pulled out two candy bars.
“I’m so pleased to see
the two of you are getting
along so well together,” he said. “I promised you each a little something if you
could go a day without fighting. Here is
your prize. Congratulations!”
The candy bar tasted great. Maybe art
isn’t so stupid after all.
After it was all over, I still hated
Andrea. Andrea still hated me. Ms.
Hannah still had a big problem with collecting garbage. I said I would try to be
nice to Andrea. She said she would try to
be nice to me. And we both said we
would try to help Ms. Hannah with her
problem.
But it won’t be easy!


